oftentimes have to refer to these things
in passing very quickly like we will
mention
uh say for instance uh vesco we'll talk
about uh about robert vesco and uh we'll
talk about
mitch warbell and we'll just throw those
names out in passing
and they won't mean a whole lot to
people who have not were not around for
the original broadcast where these names
were introduced
or people who study them on their own so
because of this problem
and because of the fact that we had to
keep going back and laboriously
reiterating every single detail every
time we wanted to add
one new detail on the top in other words
it's like building a new cathedral every
time you want to put a new gargoyle on
the roof
we decided that what we would do would
prepare these archived broadcasts and
they are literally that for the purpose
of
making a radio archive a radio library
in which people can hang on to these
tapes
they will have the information in single
subject doses
in other words we'll only be talking
about one particular area rather than
ranging
far and wide back across the board
because even in talking about one area
we have to range pretty far and wide
and we'll be doing these these four
hours at a time one subject very
in-depth examinations and of course as
we quickly found out some of these
subjects require even more than one four
hour time slot
and we do two three four even five shows
occasionally and this is the second
of the broadcast which probably maybe
even as many as four broadcasts
um because they're so germaine to what's
going on on the subject of intelligence
our intelligence and military networks
in this country
and their involvement with the drug
trade okay
so one of the very important things to
realize as we start this broadcast
tonight is that these things are to be
taped
if at all possible we realize it's very
difficult for people to sit and listen
to an entire broadcast
all the way through it's going to be
four hours it's going to be fascinating
stuff if you're in any way shape or form
interested in the world around you
it's going to be very interesting stuff
there's probably a lot of things about
your country that you are not aware of
and about other people's countries
however we do understand also that it is
occasionally a little tough to listen to
this kind of in-depth
information for a long period of time
this is why we strongly recommend
that uh that this information be taped
whenever possible
however there are also uh available for
people who do not have access to tape
players there are also
there's a tape service that we utilize
that does make tapes of these broadcasts
and we will give you the address later
in the broadcast
where you can contact these people to
get copies of these tapes
of these archived shows if you cannot
tape them yourself but again
if you haven't tuned in before we
strongly urge you to batten down the
hatches and stay with us for a while and
see if you have ever heard anything like
this
on your radio station okay now again our
programs are intended for use as audio
reference works there's never been a
better time
as nip indicated to get into this kind
of material
it would be uh well i was going to say
it would be difficult to
more difficult to fully appreciate the
broadcast we're going to be doing this
evening
without discussing some oh at least to a
certain extent
reviewing some of the major points that
we covered in the first broadcast on the
subject of the interrelationship between
our intelligence system
and the narcotics traffic in our first
broadcast what we basically looked at
was how the
main elements of the international
heroin trade following world war ii
grew directly out of the central
intelligence agency's cold war policy
or really america's cold war policy as
expressed
through the actions of the central
intelligence agency specifically in this
regard what we looked at the first two
broadcast in the first broadcast
was the development of the french
connection and the development of the
golden triangle in southeast asia
in each case both of those major
elements and those are perhaps
to the two of the three most important
connections with regard to the post-war
heroin trade the other being the
so-called golden to the the so-called
golden crescent area of southwest asia
the golden triangle being in southeast
asia
the french connection being essentially
the intro the cooperative
interrelationship between turkish opium
growers
the the mafia the onorata societa of
sicily
and union chorus of corsica we covered
the
growth of the french connection and the
growth of the golden triangle both
stemming directly
from relationships formed by the us
intelligence apparat
during the war that world war ii that is
which then extended
into the cold war period specifically we
took a look at how during world war ii
the united states began working actively
with the mafia in this country for in
two basic capacities
first of all the office of naval
intelligence formed a liaison with lucky
luciano's east coast mafia organization
and in return for basically a guarantee
of freedom at the end of world war
ii luciano enlisted his mafia
organization
as a security organization to guard
against access sata tours on the docks
of the east coast of the united states
during world war ii
in addition the the mafia elements
which were allied with luciano's
american mafia organization that is the
sicilian mafia elements a lot with
luciano's american mafia organization
in turn were pressed into this post this
this world war ii alliance with the
mafia and assisted general patton's
landings in sicily following the
conclusion of hostilities in europe or
at least the conclusion of the war
against nazism
the the collaboration between us
intelligence and mafia was extended
this time the mafia was used as a
bulwark against communism and
specifically the mafia was placed in
power
in sicily uh in considerable measure in
order to guard against the very
uh resurgent and lively communist party
that was active in sicily
and throughout italy largely because of
the popular sentiment that they enjoyed
as a result of their resistance against
the nazis so the
mafia in sicily which had been largely
wiped out by mussolini
was basically placed into power by us
intelligence at the end of world war two
in order to guard against
the uh the possibility of communism in
italy and sicily
this place the mafia which then the
luciano organization lucky luciano was
exiled to sicily after being released as
per his agreement with naval
intelligence
luciano organization then became the
dominant element
sicilian element the dominant mafia
element in the post-world war
ii heroin trafficking in this regard the
mafia the sicilian mafia worked out a
relationship a cooperative relationship
with the union course the corsican
syndicate which operated largely out of
marseille
on the mainland of france here too u.s
intelligence and our cold war policies
were front and center in establishing
the so-called french connection
the union chorus just like the sicilian
mafia was
actively supported by the central
intelligence agency at the end of
after world war ii in order to serve as
basically an anti-communist cadre
as a result of the power that the union
chorus derived they became
the dominant element in the marseille
underworld and a very very powerful
element in southern france
the union course and of course the
marseille gangsters were
notoriously effective smugglers and
because of pressure put
on some of the sicilian heroin
laboratories
which were working for the luciano
organization the luciano organization
and the sicilian mafia in general
worked out a cooperative relationship
with union course whereby union chorus
would refine
the mafia's heroine then transshipped
to the united states the point here
being that the
establishment of the french connection
was made possible by the power
given to two organized crime syndicates
by the central intelligence agency
specifically in order to function as
anti-communist cadres the sicilian mafia
in sicily the union chorus
in marseille primarily on the mainland
of france got the power
that they needed in order to become the
two dominant elements
in the french connection element of the
international heroin trade one of the
dominant
connections in the post-world war ii
heroin trade as a result
of the assistance they were given by u.s
intelligence
after the war now in asia we took a look
again
at another relationship formed during
world war ii by us intelligence with a
crime syndicate
in this case specifically we're taking a
look at the alliance between the office
of strategic services
and the chiang kai-shek security officer
tai lee
ti li ty lee in turn his organization he
was basically
sort of like the security minister for
chiang kai-shek he was described by one
observer as
chiang kai-shek's himmler basically the
uh the
head policeman of chiang kai-shek's
basically fascist government
in china prior to enduring world war ii
now tai li in turn made liberal use that
his organization the core of his
organization his security organization
was comprised of the green gang out of
shanghai which was headed by a fellow
named tu yue sheng
the green gang was basically an
organization which financed itself
through the manipulation of the
international opium trade they were
opium traffickers
they in turn became under tai li the
bulk of chiang kai-shek security
apparatus
during world war ii u.s intelligence
actively cooperated with the thai lee
organization
then as the relationship between nash
the nationalist chinese elements and the
u.s national security establishment was
extended into the post-world war ii
period u.s intelligence
continued to cooperate with the dope
dealing elements of chiang kai-shek's
organization
and cia support for the residual
kuomintang elements in southeast asia
after the fall of nationals china after
mao zeitung took control
of the mainland of china the cia in
order to again combat communism
gave heavy support to the kuomintang
armies which were
had fled china for southeast asia as we
saw in europe the material assistance
given to these quomentang elements
permitted them to not only control but
to develop
far beyond what had originally been the
golden triangle heroin traffic in
southeast asia
this was basically the heroin which the
u.s came across during the course of our
expeditionary uh
for our invasion of south vietnam during
the vietnam war
following that and this will take us
right up to the point where at uh where
we will be beginning this broadcast we
took a look at how the french during
their phase of the indo-china war had
used the opium traffic and the profits
derived thereby
to put together basically a security
force to
finance an irregular army comprised of
various ethnic tribes groups
tribe tribal groups which were in
southeast asia in vietnam
the many of these groups particularly
the hmong or mayo tribesmen in laos
financed their activities they had their
major cash crop was the opium poppy
the french facilitated the traffic of
some of these indigenous groups
and used the profits thereby to sustain
an irregular army comprised of the hmong
and other tribal groups
during the french phase of the
indo-china war this policy to a
considerable extent was revived by the
u.s when we
moved into the indo-china war we took a
look at how nien khao ki
head of the vietnamese air force and the
vice president of the now-defunct south
vietnamese republic
cooperated with a fellow named general
loan l-o-a-n
and the two of them financed they are
set up is revived really
the security apparatus of nyeon van tu
which again was largely dependent on
profits derived from the very lucrative
opium trade in saigon
lone and key uh with the uh
active cooperation of u.s officials
essentially controlled they they
corralled the opium trade
in vietnam used the proceeds from it and
the graft from it
to finance a security and an anti-viet
cong security
organization in vietnam during the war
beyond that and again as a sort of
development or refinement
of the technique of using opium income
to as uh to provide the financing for
anti-communist cadres
the united states picked up where the
french left off
and began actively assisting the mayor
among tribesmen in laos
with their opium trade specifically we
took a look at air america a cia air
proprietary
and their unfortunate habit of flying
opium into south vietnam where in
partnership
with nyenkow key the former head of the
vice marshal of the
vietnamese air force vice president of
the republic under nian vientu
where in partnership with general key
and other south vietnamese generals
the uh basically the united states wound
up
in in essence trafficking in opium see
the air america and the cia would fly
the opium grown in laos in the golden
triangle into vietnam
where the south vietnamese government in
cooperation with the united states would
then deal
that very same heroin and of course the
main victims of the southeast asian
heroin trade during the vietnam war
was our own gis the attic population of
the country swelled enormously during
the vietnam war
those addicts were being addicted by
dope grown by the people we were there
to protect
and being that those drugs were flown
into vietnam
by the united states government itself
so we have a pattern
which we're going to see developing
further where the
the united states basically took off a
page from the french's
from the book of the french and used the
proceeds from the opium and heroin
traffic
to finance anti-communist armies and
agents and this is where we're going to
begin
this evening we're going to take a look
at a perhaps one of the most startling
and perhaps the most loathsome single
development
of our southeast asian policy our
vietnam policy the development of an
organization called the new gun hand
bank
which we're going to see a further
development
and a formalization of the habit of
using dope financing
to uh expedite and to underwrite
political dealings
now if you want to make uh if you want
to draw some kind of a larger
allusion here to how this happened it's
fairly obvious to see
that as our security forces came more
and more to rely
on uh anti-communist forces who as dave
though aptly put it whose primary income
was oftentimes heroin
or other forms of of dangerous narcotics
more and more our security forces
themselves in the form of the
the cia case officers and the the
special military intelligence people
began to find
what uh an extremely liquid method of
funding the drug
traffic was one of the reasons that
drugs are such a lucrative business
besides the fact that the demand never
dies off is that because
they are comparatively extremely easy to
ship from one place to another
they are a a very lucrative form for the
amount
of actual raw material that has to be
moved from one place to another in other
words there's very few other businesses
where you can take something that weighs
less than a pound
and make hundreds of thousands or
millions of dollars off of it which you
can in the drug trade
so comparatively small amount that can
be shipped rather easily and moved
around by small groups of people not
needing a huge infrastructure although
those have developed
also in many cases because the people
involved in the drug trade because of
the illegal nature of the drug trade and
because of its
its strong ties into the fascist
anti-communist community
are also directly in contact with other
people of like political minds
and there is an extremely well organized
system of drugs and guns being swapped
back and forth
and uh and money that is very difficult
to trace being shot back and forth from
one place to another
so as in the 1940s late 1940s 1950s and
1960s
the secret team of the united states the
intelligence and military establishments
began more and more to operate outside
the law outside the charter of uh
congressional and public approval
more and more they came up against the
situation so common to people who are
trying to do something and not let other
people find out about it which is
where do we get the money for it that
being the case they were forced to
uh take the drugs or whatever the case
might be or the weapons
and move things back and forth and use
these systems
to operate essentially a black market
political economy that would allow
the uh the the intelligence forces
whether they be the cia or us military
forces or in the early days the oss
would allow them with a comparatively
small uh x
um comparatively small expensive
manpower
to set up a system whereby money could
be kept flowing in
almost continuously into a system and
they would have instant access to all
the things that that illegal or illicit
or
black market money could gain for them
namely weapons
the service of mercenaries and uh
illegal bases on which to plan and to
train people and things of that nature
so
as the cia in particular and uh our
intelligence forces and
in general began to see more and more
their role in the post-world war two
world that as being sort of a vast
secret police to uh keep the entire
world controlled in one shape or form to
fight communism
to influence political destinies of
countries all over the world
more and more they began to take their
dealings underground to bypass the
normal
procedures all together and more and
more these illicit forms of funding
these things
uh coups and counter coups revolutionary
insurgencies etc etc
became the case and drugs because of the
contacts that had been made with the
mafia and the union course and the
coleman tang drug gangs
drugs became more and more the method by
which this could be done
all right now we're going to begin a
discussion with something which will
pick up
exactly where we left off at the excuse
me at the end of the last broadcast
namely
the development of the technique that
the cia borrowed from the
french anti-insurgency policy during the
first part of the vietnam war
the habit or the technique of using the
profits derived from the dope trade
to finance covert operations initially
the so-called secret army in laos was
financed for the dope traffic
as we're going to see saw an
organization called the new gun hand
bank which began during the vietnam war
and which in and of itself
was actually a u.s intelligence
operation plain and simple which was
established among other things
for the express purpose of trafficking
in drugs the new gun hand bank
began during this same period and this
evening specifically
we're going to take a look at the
interrelationship between the narcotics
trade
and the arms traffic we're going to take
a look at how the cia moves guns
for drugs all right the first section
that we're going to read from
is from the book entitled in banks we
trust
the author is penniler new l-e-r-n-o-u-x
and the book was originally published in
hardback by anchor press double day
in nineteen eighty four penny
penny lernew writes in chapter four
titled nugent hand murder and the good
old boys of the cia
early on a sunday morning in 1980 two
patrolmen driving along a lonely stretch
of highway near the australian port of
sydney
came upon a mercedes sedan with its
lights on
inside the car slumped across the front
seat in a puddle of blood
was the body of a middle-aged man
searching his pockets the patrolman
found the business card of
william colby former director of the cia
on the back of the card was the
itinerary of a trip colby intended to
make to asia
beside the body were a new rifle and a
bible with a meat pie wrapper as a place
mark
on the rapper were scrawled the names of
colby and congressman bob wilson of
california
then the ranking republican on the house
armed services committee
the dead man turned out to be a sydney
merchant banker named frank
neugen spelled n-u-g-a-n co-owner of the
neugen
hand bank in hand h-a-n-d
his apparent suicide set off an
international scandal
involving heroin and arms traffickers
the cia
and enough high-ranking u.s military
officers to launch a small war
the new gun hand saga is revealing as
much for what it says about banks
as about the cia for the bank was the
fulcrum
of a multitude of illegal and lucrative
activities from heroin running to
investment swindles
as well as paymaster for cia covert
actions against australia's
labour party skipping down
frank neugen was a fast learner
a thick set man with a flare for
self-promotion nugent had an
ingratiating manner that could quote
charm the pants off anybody
as one colleague recalled the son of a
spanish migrant who had done well in the
food packing business
newgan took a law degree at the
university of california and returned to
sydney
ambitious for the open combat of the
business world
the young australian was a natural
partner for michael hand
a tough talking green beret with the
special forces in vietnam
who visited australia when it was a rest
and recreation center for american
troops
hand left vietnam in 1968 to settle in
sydney
where he joined forces with negan to
promote australian tourism mining and
real estate through an outfit called
australasian and pacific holdings
limited
the company may well have been a cia
front since four of the original
shareholders listed air
america the cia airline as their address
and two other investors were from a c
i a related institution
in 1973 the pair formed the negan hand
bank
it attracted depositors with offers of
private banking services
the highest interest rates in the region
tax-free deposits
and complete secrecy within six years it
had twenty two branches around the world
but nugent hands biggest business came
from laundering money for asian and
australian heroin dealers
not coincidentally the bank's officers
read like a who's who
of the cia despite cia denials of
involvement
there is strong historical evidence to
support the suspicion that the bank was
founded
to help finance the cia's role in
southeast asia's heroin traffic
continuing as noted by scholar alfred w
mccoy in the politics of heroin in
southeast asia
after world war ii washington believed
that the united states was the rightful
heir to europe's asian colonial empires
to legitimize their foreign adventures
america's cold warriors embraced a
militant ideology that regarded all
asian nationalist struggles as pawns of
international communism unquote
the cia became the vanguard of the
anti-communist crusade
any ally was welcome and any means
justified
during the early 1950s for example the
cia backed the formation in burma
of a guerrilla army of nationalist
chinese who were responsible for almost
a third
of the world's illicit opium supply in
laos
the cia created a mao mayo mercenary
army
whose commander manufactured heroin for
sale to american gis in south vietnam
and in late 1969 new heroin laboratories
sprang up in the golden triangle where
burma
thailand and laos converge the state
department wrote mccoy
provides unconditional support for
corrupt governments openly engaged in
the drug traffic
unquote in view of such activities
a drug bank set up by the c i a has a
certain logic
particularly since a bank was obviously
necessary to recycle the huge sums of
money involved in the heroin traffic
evidence uncovered by detectives and
journalists also shows that new gun hand
arranged arms deals in south america
africa and the middle east and served as
financial intermediary for former cia
agent and notorious arms dealer edwin
p wilson records seized by the
australian authorities show further
that the bank received lengthy reports
about military and political activities
mostly in cambodia but also also in laos
vietnam and thailand they were prepared
by negan hands bangkok representative
a former career british naval officer
and seemed to have no connection with
the bank's normal business
equally suspicious the cia fbi and u.s
customs refused
on grounds of national security to
release information that they held on
the bank's activities
when the australian weekly the national
times petitioned under the us freedom of
information act for fbi records it
received only
71 of 150.1 pages requested
of these most had been blocked out in
heavy ink with a notation
b1 unquote meaning that disclosure would
endanger
endanger u.s national defense or foreign
policy
observe nugent hand liquidator john
o'brien quote
it has obvious overtones that somebody
is covering something up
unquote the question is whether the
people who ran the bank were in it for
the money
or because they thought they were
serving a political cause
mccoy whose observations were made in
the late 1960s
did not think the cia was in the drug
traffic to finance its clandestine
operations
or because of a few corrupt agents
rather its role was
the inadvertent and inevitable
consequence of its cold war tactics
unquote but by the mid-1970s
the cold war historian hysteria had
passed and political reasons for dealing
with drug traffickers seemed less
compelling
so either the cia was carrying on its
own private cold war
or nugent hand was an intelligence cover
for crime
frank negan's activities suggest the
latter
continuing with inbanks we trust for an
agent with a cause
nugent engaged in some funny sidelines
such as defrauding several large
insurance companies of their interest in
the nugent family fruit and vegetable
business
in addition to fraudulent dealings at
the bank he also lived high
literally he had a bottle a day scotch
habit in a lavish sydney home that he
had remodeled at the cost of five
hundred thousand dollars
the day he died negan was completing
negotiations for the purchase of a 2.2
million dollar country estate
a venture that does not suggest a man
about to commit suicide
indeed there is as much mystery
surrounding nugan's death as there is
about his checkered career in banking
though negan was facing criminal charges
over the family food business
he seemed his charming chip herself to
the very end
in the last six months of his life he
had gone on the wagon lost nearly 50
pounds on a crash diet
and taken to attending church almost
daily
if the sudden changes were signs of
unraveling negan's associates seemed
unaware of them
hand and the other directors were taken
by surprise when negan's body was found
as shown by an impromptu cover-up that
failed to conceal the bank's illegal
dealings
and when an official inquest was held
the coroner's suicide verdict was
challenged on the ground that nugan
would have to have been
a quote contortionist to have shot
himself in the head with a rifle from
the position in which he was sitting
nor wore the dead man's fingerprints
found on the rifle
even after the inquest was closed some
were still unconvinced that the body in
negan's mercedes was really his
and in 1982 the new south wales attorney
general ordered an exhumation of the
corpse after witnesses claimed to have
seen him in a bar in atlanta georgia
the remains were positively identified
as neugens by means of a t
of teeth and a webbed foot
much of the evidence detailing negan's
operations was destroyed by nugen's
partner
green beret michael hand who had often
boasted of working for the cia
when he learned of negan's death hand
rushed back to sydney from a business
trip in london
he was joined by the bank's president
earl p buddy
yates retired rear admiral and former
chief of staff for strategic planning
with us forces in asia and the pacific
hand and yates called the bank's other
directors to an emergency meeting at the
bank
among those present was bernie haughton
h-o-u-g-h-t-o-n
a former undercover agent who had worked
with u.s naval intelligence in the
pacific
and was the bank's saudi arabian
representative
according to stephen k a hill one of the
directors present at the meeting
the group shredded enough records to
fill a small room
what they could not destroy they packed
in cartons and carried that night to the
back room of a butcher shop
owned by a former army sergeant in
vietnam who was an associate of hutton
hill said that haughton brought along
his lawyer michael maloney
to oversee the ransacking and that
maloney warned them quote
i am fully aware of what has been going
on
you all face jail terms of up to 16
years
hand then broke in to say if the
maloney's orders were not obeyed quote
terrible things would happen quote
your wives will be cut up and returned
to you in bits and pieces
unquote continuing meanwhile
in manila three-story three-star general
j leroy j
manner let me start again meanwhile in
manila three-star general leroy j
manor the recently retired chief of
staff for all u.s forces in asia and the
pacific
was trying to persuade new gun hands
public relations officer to stop the
wire services from reporting negan's
death
on a secret assignment for the air force
in the philippines manor was also
helping to run new good hands manila
office
nor were manor and yates the only
high-ranking former u.s
military and intelligence officials
working for the bank
general edwin f black commander of u.s
troops in thailand during the vietnam
war
and later assistant army chief of staff
for the pacific was president of nugent
hands hawaiian operations
the consulting offices of general earl
[ __ ] jr cocke
a retired general with the u.s national
guard served as new gun hands washington
headquarters
on the intelligence side negan hand
associates included
william colby director of the c i a
between 1973 and six
who served as a lawyer for the bank
walter mcdonald a former deputy director
for the of the cia who worked as a
consultant
guy parker p-a-u-k-e-r a cia advisor
also a consultant
and dale holmgren flight service manager
for a cia-run airline in the far east
known as civil air transport who opened
newton hands taipei branch
the banks man in manila was roy manor a
cia consultant
involved in the aborted rescue mission
of american hostages in iran
robert red jansen former cia station
chief in bangkok
represented new gun hand in thailand
also linked to the bank were the cia
station chief of australia
and two cia case officers the beginnings
of this star-studded assembly can be
traced to the vietnam war
which had brought together such people
as houghton and hand
like hand houghton took up residence in
sydney where he opened a chain of
restaurants that would later play host
to u s congressman
cia officials and military brass
including representative wilson's armed
services committee
handed had some experience in real
estate promotion as a salesman for a
development project promoted by the
singer pat boone
and financed by the american shipping
magnate dk ludwig
according to confidential reports
obtained by the australian federal
bureau of narcotics
hand later used that landing strip
constructed on the real estate
development for heroin flights made from
asia to australia by an air america
pilot
as acknowledged by u s drug enforcement
officials air america figured
prominently in the cia's heroin traffic
from southeast asia's golden triangle
continuing the bank was also actively
engaged
in the drug trade one of its principal
branches was in chiang mai
in the heart of thailand's poppy growing
fields
australia's biggest drug pushers
operated out of this region
they also banked with nugent hand among
the blank bank's clients was the 100
million dollar
mr asia heroin syndicate which also
arranged for the contract murders of at
least three persons in australia
neil evans former head of the chiang mai
branch
testified that during six months at the
bank he saw millions of drug dollars
passed through the branch
he also said that hand had told him that
he had arranged for nugent hand to
become the cia's pay master
quote for disbursement of funds anywhere
in the world on behalf of the cia
and also for the taking of money on
behalf of the cia
evans charges confirm those of peter
wilcox an american energy consultant
who said he met hand in singapore on the
recommendation of general black
himself a graduate of the cia's wartime
predecessor the office of strategic
services
otherwise known as the oss wilcox said
that hand and nugent tried to recruit
him for the bank with the story that he
was needed for
quote deep cover work as part of an
unidentified intelligence operation
wilcox declined the offer later his
military friends told him that the bank
was moving
quote unbelievable amounts of money
covertly out of australia
indonesia and thailand the bank
apparently was able to carry on such
operations
because of highly placed contacts at the
australian federal bureau of narcotics
one of the bureau's informants worked
for the bank and he tipped off
investigators
quote they are bigger than anything you
have ever seen here in the heroin game
and are said to be part of an american
security organization
if you caught these blokes all hell
would break loose
the day after these allegations the
informant found himself being tailed
instead of nugent or hand informant
found himself being tailed instead of
nugent or hand
within a year it had become apparent to
the investigators that frank neugen had
direct access to bureau information
which he often obtained within hours of
its internal appearance
according to a formal bureau according
to a formal
a former bureau officer quote nugent was
getting to hear about our inquiries
literally before we could even update
our holdings on them
in 1978 the bureau's director placed on
file a memo
suspending any further investigation
into nugent hand
a year later the bureau was disbanded
continuing
the bank also had fruitful contacts with
the australian security intelligence
organization
asio a secret counter spy group that
worked closely with the cia
and may have been responsible for the
narcotics bureau's strange behavior in
the new gun hand case
statements by two fbi agents sent to
australia in 1982
and an ultra-secret wiretap of frank
nugen's phone
suggest that asio was involved in the
affair
australian immigration records also show
that a senior asio official
vouched for nugent hands ubiquitous
houghton when he entered australia in
1972 with an expired visa
on asio's word he received a visa
allowing him to travel
and leave australia at will the pentagon
operates a vital base at pine gap in
central australia
which monitors u.s satellites watching
the ussr and china
and directs the united states nuclear
submarines
when the labor party was voted into
power in 1972
prime minister guf whitlam who gets
g-o-u-g-h-w-h-i-t-l-a-m
quickly and tight let me start that
again when the labor party was voted
into power in 1972
prime minister guf whitlam quickly
antagonized washington by pulling
australian troops out of vietnam
and condemning president nixon for the
bombing of hanoi
but nothing so enraged the cia and asio
as whitlam's repeated criticisms of the
pine gap installation
ray klein former cia deputy director of
intelligence
later confirmed a joint cia asio plan to
destabilize the whitlam government
through misinformation and contribution
to opposition politicians
the new gun hand bank played an
important role in the fall of whitlam's
government in november of 1975
by financing bugging and forgery
operations i'm going to repeat that last
sentence again
the new gun hand bank played an
important role in the fall of whitlam's
government in november of 1975
by financing bugging and forgery
operations
a former executive of the bank also told
inquiry magazine
that under william colby the cia
laundered millions of dollars through
nugent hand to support
pro-us political parties in europe
allegedly including italy's christian
democrats
the bank was founded while william colby
was director of the cia
and he continued to play a part in its
affairs after he left the agency
including nugent hands mysterious panama
branch and an attempt to take over a
florida bank
finishing up our segment from in banks
we trust in addition to drugs
nugent hand was involved in various arms
deals with indonesia
thailand malaysia brazil and the white
rhodesian government of ian smith
the bank also did business with edwin
wilson the former cia agent convicted in
the united states of selling explosives
to libya
and charged with supplying trained men
arms and technology to libya and other
military buyers
memos and testimony by nugent hand
employees
show that hand met with wilson in
bangkok and that houghton held
discussions with him in switzerland
intelligence sources also claimed that
houghton used nugenhan's saudi arabian
branch
to finance wilson's armed smuggling
operations
in view of such activities one might ask
why so many high-ranking u.s military
men lent their names and prestige
to the bank part of the answer may lie
in the u.s intelligence community's
obvious ties to nugent hand
while colby and admiral yates denied any
connection between the cia and the bank
general black was not so sure quote i'm
not saying it's not possible
he allowed but i certainly wasn't aware
of it
walter mcdonald the negan hand
consultant and former cia deputy
director was also uncertain
quote i really don't see it happening
but i can't vouch for it
unquote technically they may have been
correct
since the bank apparently wasn't a was
originally part of a deep cover
intelligence operation known as task
force
157 which worked with the cia
but was controlled by the u.s office of
naval intelligence
and was directly responsible to
strong-willed secretary of state
henry kissinger the task force gained
notoriety when 21 of its former agents
took the navy to court
to demand civil service benefits after
the group was abruptly disbanded in 1977
because of some unknown internal scandal
ed wilson had a desk and his own staff
at the task force's washington
headquarters and is credited with
supplying the operations front name
pierce morgan informed sources said that
task force 157
used the nugent hand bank for covert
naval intelligence money
just as the cia used it to undermine
australia's labor government
according to the national times of
australia general black figured
prominently in the bank's operations
having previously been
quote in charge of various pelham para
military operations in asia
involving a number of unorthodox
financing arrangements
unquote well the history of the nugent
hand bank as we have all seen is a
history of unorthodox financing
arrangements
and the history of the cia's involvement
of the drug trade could be uh
rather uh simply summed up that same way
and rather unorthodox
set of financing arrangements uh before
we go back into this in depth for those
of you again who are just tuning in
and have not heard a radio free america
before and are curious as to why exactly
we're talking about these kinds of
things
um well the the interest or the
self-interest of anybody
in what their government is doing is
obvious but even more so with iran gain
and conjugate going on because as we
read on one of our regular broadcasts
during the week
there are allegations in the committee
of senator john kerry of massachusetts
that the contras were using
some of the money given to them by the
reagan administration to ship up
upwards of a ton a week of cocaine into
this country
as you'll recall earlier in this article
from inbanks we trust we're reading
about
one of the things that penny laneu was
talking about was the fact
that that the cia has put together over
the years
a set of arrangements with these uh
mercenary right-wing groups uh
anti-communist groups and
has literally funded their activities by
allowing them to sell
drugs uh unhindered to the american
people and it's entirely possible as a
matter of fact it's more than entirely
possible
it's damned likely that that's exactly
what's going on with the cultures as we
have seen and we will talk about later
this coming sunday by the way for those
people who are in a position to hear
this live
be tuned in and uh during what is
normally a phone-in talk show
we're going to be reading for three
hours and do kind of a radio a mini
archive show about congregate in its
intersection with the uh
national security establishments arms
and drugs traffic
so again but before we go back and sort
of sum up and and review some of the
major points
of nugent hand bear in mind that this
bank engaged openly in the arms traffic
and the narcotics traffic
is a us intelligence operation involved
large elements of cia
also appears to have intersected heavily
with a special u.s naval intelligence
group
task force 157 effectively controlled by
henry kissinger
involving among others ed wilson uh who
we've looked at in so many other
programs chiefly radio free america
number four
i'd like to read a story by way of
reviewing the cast of characters here
for the negan hand bank
here are some of the people uh again
although the names were mentioned in
penny the news section from in baxley
trust
i'm going to review some of the names
again and that figured prominently in
the new good hands story
this is from an article in the wall
street journal of august 24th 1982 this
is put together by a wall street journal
staff reporter it's headlined admirals
and generals and ex-cia men
took prominent roles in newgan hand bank
at state lines sydney australia
enough top-ranking u.s military and
intelligence officers worked for nugent
hand to run a small sized war
the list includes admiral earl
buddy yates a 1943 graduate of the u.s
naval academy
legion of honor winner in vietnam and
commander of the aircraft carrier uss
john f kennedy
then he was the chief of staff for plans
and policy of the u.s pacific command in
charge of all strategic planning from
california to the persian gulf until his
retirement in july of 1974.
he became the president of new gun hand
bank early in 1977
recruited by maurice bernard houghton
who apparently is an old friend
general leroy j manor m-a-n-o-r
the chief of staff for the entire
pacific command until he retired in july
of 1978
to undertake new duties that the air
force says are so secret
that it can't talk about them these
duties are generally known to have
included negotiating the 1979 agreement
with the philippine government
for continuance of the u s military
bases there which general
manor used to command and investigating
the failed hostage rescue raid
in iran in 1980 an assignment that
apparently stemmed from his having
designed
and commanded the 1970 raid on a north
vietnamese prison camp that failed to
find any us prisoners
a much decorated air force three-star
general he also had been the special
assistant to the joint chiefs of staff
at the pentagon for
counter insurgency and special
activities unquote
he joined nugent hands manila office
allegedly to run it which he denies
in 1979 general edwin
f black a 1940 graduate of west point
he entered the office of strategic
services the oss which later became the
cia and was the oss commander in berlin
he was the chief administrative aide ii
and frequent chess opponent of alan
dulles who became the head of the cia
he was the wartime boss and then tennis
partner of richard helms
who also became the head of the cia he
was on the national security council
staff under president eisenhower
and later the commander of all u.s
troops in thailand during the vietnam
war
before becoming assistant army chief of
staff for the pacific
he retired in 1970 to become executive
vice president of the freedoms
foundation in valley forge pennsylvania
a group promoting conservative politics
he also worked for ltv corporation an
important cia contractor
in 1977 he became the president of
nugent hand incorporated hawaii
and special representative of the
overall organization making frequent
trips to asia
he says he was recruited by admiral
yates and another admiral
general earl [ __ ] jr clcke
whose entry and who's who in america
says that during world war ii
he was prisoner of war three times
actually executed unquote by a german
firing squad
and delivered the coup de grasse but
survived 1945.
he held various posts posts with the
defense department as an executive with
delta
and then peruvian airlines he is a
former national commander of the
american legion
honorary commander of the nationalist
chinese air force
and holder of the french legion of honor
and top medals from spain
the philippines and italy now listed as
a retired general with the u.s
national guard and a consultant his
continuing office served as new gun
hands
washington office his consulting office
served as negan hands washington office
william colby the u s director of
central intelligence 1973-6
he ran intelligence programs in vietnam
during the war
in 1979 and 1980 as a lawyer with the
wall street firm of read and priest
he worked for nugent hand on a variety
of matters tax problem
tax problems the foreign corrupt
practices act an abortive project to
relocate indo-chinese refugees on an
island in either the caribbean or the
pacific
an attempt to take over a florida bank
the operations of nugent hands
mysterious panama branch
and the problems surrounding mr newgan's
death mr colby submitted 46 thousand
dollars in bills which weren't paid
a ten thousand dollar check for his
retainer was issued but never
cashed walter mcdonald
a career cia officer since 1975
and deputy director in charge of
economic research from 1972 to 1977.
then while still in the cia
he helped his former boss one-time cia
director james schlesinger
set up and run the u s energy department
he served on the national foreign
intelligence board
the senior advisory group in the
intelligence community
he announced his retirement in 1979 went
into consulting and almost immediately
by his own account
began spending most of his time with
nugent hand traveling in the u.s and
europe with mr neugen
and talking with him daily guy parker
p-a-u-k-e-r
a rand corporation staff member who has
advised the cia and other government
agencies since the 1950s
although he denies reports that he is a
career employee of the cia
mr mcdonald whom he calls his good
friend unquote
once said that mr parker has long
frequent personal access has had
has long had frequent personal access to
white house national security advisers
including henry kissinger and bigness
brzezinski
mr parker went to work as a consultant
to new good hand after admiral
yates introduced him to mrs nugent and
hand
he in turn introduced them to mr
mcdonald mr parker says he wasn't
involved in any completed deals for the
bank
dale holmgren h o l m g r e n a former
u.s army officer in taiwan
who became manager of flight services
for civil air transport
a c i a run airline in the far east
he then went into business in taiwan he
opened the new gun hand branch in taipei
in 1978 as a one-man
representative admiral yates once said
that mr holmgren had long worked with
the u s military in taiwan
to develop quote within the social
structure of the chinese in taipei
a close relationship with the u s
military forces and the business and
government community unquote
admiral yates also said that mr holmgren
had worked for nugent hand without pay
at least for a while
because he had an independent income
robert
red jansen a former cia station chief in
bangkok
who advised thai governments through
almost daily meetings with the prime
minister in the early nineteen seventies
according to persons close to them he
worked for nugent hand there in 1978
although he apparently severed his
relationship that year according to a
colleague
because he was warned by the us embassy
that his presence at the bank had
aroused suspicion
mr janssen apparently has an unlisted
number and couldn't be reached
for comment and before we go back to
review some of the machinations that
nugent hand was involved in
i'd like to read you one other short
section of another article in that very
same edition
of the wall street journal this again
from the wall street journal
of tuesday august 24 1982 the first
article
in a fun three-part series run on the
24th fifth and sixth of august of 1982
the article is by wall street journal
art writer jonathan whitney k-w-i-t-n-y
whose work we've used before and it's
headlined
australian mystery the collapse of
newton-han bank disposes links with some
high-ranking american military
and intelligence officials and there's a
person whose name here crops up in
connection with new guinea
we're going to be looking at it
considerably greater length this coming
sunday in connection with the contra
gate iran affair
at which as nip indicated earlier drug
smuggling on the part of our government
is a
is a central issue reading from
whitney's article from eight twenty four
eighty two
when vice president george bush visited
australia this april that would have
been april of 82
labor party leader bill hayden a strong
possibility to become prime minister
used his thirty minute meeting with mr
bush mostly to press for the release of
details on the new gun hand and whitlam
affairs
mr bush only gave his assurances that
the cia wasn't involved in either matter
mr bush was the c i a director in 1976
succeeding mr colby who later was to
become a lawyer for nugent hand
so george bush during his tenure as
director of the cia
was one of the cia directors to whom or
over
under whom does the new gun hand bank
operated
remember now the new gun handle though
nominally a naval intelligence operation
also served as a major major element in
the cia's arsenal in
southeast asia now again the major
points of this bank are as follows
this was a bank which was set up as a us
intelligence operation
as indicated in pennile news book
although it was nominally a naval
intelligence operation
it also res it also worked very very
closely with the c i a
now in that capacity the newton-han bank
served
as a broker for the cia's drug deals
those drug deals remember as we looked
at
in radio free america number 24 the
first program in this series
went in considerable measure to finance
anti-communist uh mercenaries
in the vietnam war okay we took a look
at the hmong tribesmen we took a look at
the security operation in saigon proper
both financed primarily by the dope
trade and obviously many of the people
involved in do get hand were not only
some of the cia officials in thailand
and vietnam but also
notice the preponderance of china lobby
people as well we looked at the
evolution of the china lobby
our wartime alliance with thai lee and
the green gang of two yuashing
how that eventually gave rise to cia
cuomintang cooperation in establishing
the golden triangle here uh heroin
area growing area or opium growing area
in the first place
perhaps most significantly the well
before
in addition to the serving as a bank for
the uh as a repository for the
drug money that the cia was
was generating in order to finance
covert operations negan had also served
to finance
arms deals and the chief name that we
want to take note of in connection with
these arms
deals and the operation of new gun hand
in general edwin wilson who along with
frank turple not only helped train and
armed moamir qaddafi's
uh terrorist cadre themselves but also
obviously have had their fingers in just
about every manure pie that's hit the
united states in the face and know the
last uh 10 to 15 years
we'll be coming back to triple and
wilson on sunday's program in connection
with iran gate contra gate
we've already looked at him in
connection with a wide variety of
activities
while we're on the subject of george
bush too i wanted to put in a a
quick uh uh mark a quick indicator in
the margin by
the name of george bush you notice in
the article from 1982 that dave read
from the wall street journal the
jonathan clinton article accompanying
the uh
the long who's who um that in that
george bush was talking to the uh
to a member of the labor party in
australia this is in 1982 and assuring
him that among other things that the c i
a had nothing to do
with the downfall of the whitlam
government interestingly enough the
whitlam government the fall of the
whitlam government was completed
in 1975 george bush of course was dcia
director of the cia in 75 and 76.
so as uh happened today again december
third and when this show is being aired
originally
uh george bush flatly denied his
involvement in the
the contra arms deals as well as the
country drug dealing today
in a national interview bear in mind in
1982 he was flatly denying
the cia's uh proven involvement with the
fall of the whitlam government
during his tenure as director of the cia
so again this is something coming up
this sunday
that uh good old george bush is probably
going to be coming under some
surveillance as well as ed wilson and
the others
now not only did the negan hand bank and
again that the point can't be
overemphasized that this was
specifically
a us intelligence operation set up in
large measure to bankroll the c i a is
drug profits it was also used to broker
c
i a arms deals around the world and
perhaps most significantly as just
touched on by neptuc
the newton hand bank was used as an
element in the destabilization
of the whitlam government in australia
the the
government of not only a nation not
hostile to the us but of a u.s
military ally australia was
systematically destabilized and removed
one of the central elements as indicated
by penalty and penniler new
in this australian coup in effect was
the new gun hand bank and again some of
the key names to remember
edwin wilson henry kissinger that long
long list of army and cia brass and navy
brass that we looked at
a little earlier and again remembering
that this is uh
essentially an outgrowth of our policy
in southeast asia where we saw
the us take a page from the french's
book and begin financing operations
through the dope trade
and here we have an organization set up
in large measure
as a dope financed covert operations uh
hub i guess you could say
and uh again remember the people
involved in this remember that this bank
in essence a criminal enterprise was a
u.s government
operation all right and as we're going
to come back and post mortem a little
bit more on new good hand and also begin
to follow the actual trail
of cia-sponsored drugs in the united
states
we hope you will stick with us meanwhile
we're going to take a break to give
everybody a chance to get up and move
around and
dave and myself a chance to rest the
vocal cords and then we will return with
as i said more information
on the drug trade itself and a more
specific look at how some of the drugs
come into the country and who brings
them
in okay so don't go away we'll be back
with more of
one step beyond not wednesday beyond
excuse me tonight it's radio free
america
as you heard last we were talking a
great length of course about the new
game
bank the bank set up apparently by cia
and military officials
to launder drug profits to be pay master
for
various asian operations of the cia and
other american organizations
to work for the task force 157 group
headed up by henry kissinger under the
auspices of the office of naval
intelligence and also apparently to
receive money uh garner and other ways
the drug trade among them
and launder them for purposes uh that
many of which we'll just have to wonder
about and we may never find out and
probably never would have found out if
uh frank newgan the man who was one of
the founders of the bank hadn't died in
a way still
not not explained in his car by the side
of the road one day in australia in 1980
so again this was an operation set up
not only to in order to bank
the cia's drug profits but in turn to
use those proceeds to finance further
operations sort of
a self-perpetuating cia and naval
intelligence
dope operation in considerable measure
again the arms the arms
trafficking side the drug trafficking
side and the overthrow of the whitlam
government are front and center here
remember also the edwin wilson
connection and the impressive variety of
military and us military and
intelligence officials who intersect
with this bank at one uh
at one area or or in one area or another
we're not going to take a look at
another u s operation the u s covert
operation which was in essence
a drug dealing operation and in turn the
proceeds from the
from those drug deals were used not only
to finance the arms trade but to
destabilize another
friendly another government friendly to
the united states
this u s intelligence operation we're
going to be looking at takes place in
mexico
and this operation and and again this is
a
a dope dealing operation run in essence
by the u s government
was used to destabilize the echeveria
government in mexico
all right the segment we're going to
read to you is from
a truly fine book called the great
heroin coup subtitled drugs intelligence
and international fascism
uh we used this a great deal on the
broadcast it was sort of the next step
up from the book we quoted from at great
length last week which is the politics
of heroin in southeast asia by alfred
mccoy
this was the next step and this was
where the picture began to emerge that
not only was the cia involved in the
drug trade
and various other parts of the
government involved in the drug trade
but that it was not merely for the sake
of convenience but in fact it was as a
specific way
of financing covert operations and
that's what we're going to begin to be
talking about
uh in this part of the broadcast anyway
the great heroin coup drugs intelligence
and international fascism by henrik or
heinrich
krueger a danish journalist and the book
is copyright 1980 by south end
press of boston has a fine forward by
the way by peter dale scott a professor
at the university of california berkeley
himself one of the premier researchers
in this field and someone whose work we
use
frequently absolutely all right reading
from
the great heroin coup they're talking
now about the
the mexican heroin traffic and the fact
that the traffic of
mexican heroin traffic is com was
controlled at the time of this writing
uh 1980 largely by seven mexican
families and they start off with one
that's very important
to our point of view although in fact as
you will see it's not really a mexican
family at all
alberto cecilia falcone the last name is
spelled
s i c i l i a dash
f a l c o n like falcon alberto cecilia
falcone leader of the cecilia falcones
is not a mexican at all he was born in
matanzas cuba
he and his family left the island
immediately after castro's takeover
to become part of miami's cuban exile
milieu
after the bay of pigs invasion he was
trained by the cia at fort jackson for
operation
40. from there his trail is faint for
several years
however according to mexican police he
was in chile helping the cia to
undermine the government
of salvador allende in mid 1973 he
turned up in mexico where in record
time he established a gigantic heroin
and marijuana ring
according to dea director peter
benzinger in 1975
the ring numbered more than sixteen
hundred including film stars and
international businessmen
cecilia falcone himself resided in
villas
in tijuana in san diego heroin was
transported to san diego from a
warehouse in kuliakan
marijuana from a processing plant in
mexicali to a u.s distribution center in
coronado cays
in late 1973 one of cecilia falcone's
truckers was stopped on his way back to
mexico
the truck was loaded with arms bound
from nicaragua
according to a later report in the
bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms
one illegal weapons dealer in
brownsville texas alone
supplied cecilia falcone with 12 million
rounds of ammunition in 1974.
the guns for drugs traffic proceeded
unhindered
until early nineteen seventy five when
the government of then president luis
echeverria
discovered that cecilia falcone's weapon
shipments went to groups in mexico
went to groups in mexico quote external
forces are attempting to destabilize our
country
said echeveria in a 1975 speech in
obvious reference to his neighbor
to the north then the mexicans began an
intense surveillance of cecilia falcone
who they learned often met and conversed
by telephone with a mystery man in
cuernavaca
some 90 kilometers south of mexico city
when a lemonade bottle bearing the man's
fingerprints was sent to the fbi
the bureau informed mexican authorities
that the man was
sam giancana the chicago mafia capo
heroin trafficker and cia collaborator
the mexicans agreed to a french
extradition request for giancana
but when his paris-bound plane stopped
over in houston giancana
was whisked away by u.s agents
soon thereafter he was found murdered in
his chicago mansion
mexican interior ministry officials
claimed the cia had done all it could
to prevent the mobster's extradition
continuing with her with
krueger's account on july 2nd 1975
cecilia falcone was arrested
under rough interrogation he claimed to
be an agent of the cia
and said that his drug ring had been set
up on orders from
and with the support of the agency
repeating that last sentence again
on july 2nd 1975 celia falcone was
arrested
under rough interrogation he claimed to
be an agent of the cia
and said that his drug ring had been set
up on orders from and with the support
of the agency
part of his profits were to go towards
the purchase of weapons and ammunition
for distribution throughout central
america for the destabilization of
undesirable governments
if true u.s heroin addicts were again
footing the bill for clandestine
paramilitary operations and
anti-communist terror campaigns
and cecilia falcone and his syndicate
associates were not short of funds
in his possession police found two swiss
bank books to the tune of 260 million
dollars
still the strange testimony of alberto
cecilia falcone did not end with his
confession
his family's heroin and arms shipments
continued and on april 26
1976 he and three of his lieutenants
escaped from lakeland very prison
through an electrically lit
100 yard long tunnel dug from outside
they were recaptured three days later at
which time cecilia falcone
fearing for his life at the hands of the
cia requested
transfer to another prison and
additional security
echeveria and cecilia falcone each were
right about the destabilization program
fbi documents released later disclosed
that between 1970 and
six the fbi served as a secret link
between the u s embassy in mexico city
and the u s border patrol in california
and texas in order to destabilize the
government of president echeverria
j edgar hoover had believed that
achavaria had surrounded himself with
quote old communists and communist party
sympathizers unquote
a memo from hoover to the u s legal
attache praises
the detonation of strategic and
effective bombs in mexico city unquote
and the wave of night machine gunnings
to divide subversive leaders
unquote besides achieving his
progressive attitude
another reason for u s hostility towards
his government was the mexican
president's refusal to approve world
bank
and international monetary fund plans
for the exploitation of mexico's newly
discovered oil reserves
the first order of business of his
successor jose lopez profilo in 1976
was approval of those same plans and the
newspaper el sol de mexico wrote shortly
after the latter's inauguration that
year quote
the new government is not interested in
publicity regarding the cecilia falcone
case
it will quietly extradite him to the us
as soon as the new extradition agreement
between the two countries
comes into effect unquote in the cecilia
falcone case
the dea and cia struggled bitterly
against one another
it was symptomatic of a split within the
dea's own ranks
a split rooted in the effective control
of its narcotics intelligence division
by transplanted agents of the cia and
this split within the di dea is
something we're going to be going into
in the third program
in our series however now we're going to
take a couple minutes just to review
the cecilia falcone connection for you
all right um well as mentioned here
uh alberto cecilia falcone was a leading
member of the mexican
uh heroin traffic um and in fact when
he himself was uh involved in the
traffic at the same time he was also
involved with a trans shipment of large
amounts of arms
now as we said before one of the main
reasons that the government uh the cia
and other aspects of the
american government in particular but
probably many other uh governments as
well
have gotten involved in the drug traffic
is because it's an easily transportable
source of revenue and in many cases it's
also usually
the same people are also involved with
the international illegal arms shipment
market
so it makes it very easy to move these
back and forth so alberto cecilia
falcone not only being one of
the leading drug dealers in heroin and
marijuana also was found to be moving
guns backwards down the pipeline back
into
mexico and central america and when
discovered he explained or when arrested
he explained that in fact
his drug network his entire network was
set up with the permission and the aid
of the cia
for the purpose of funding
destabilization attempts
on various governments and as it turned
out one of the governments that was
being destabilized was as they protested
at the time to a chorus of uh
of um rude cat calls from the united
states government
was in fact the echeveria government of
mexico who j edgar hoover among other
people found to be
full of quote-unquote communist
sympathizers so again we have the
situation
as we have seen many other times as we
just saw with goff whitlam's
labor party in australia the united
states not only using illicit drug
traffic
to supply cia and uh and other
intelligence activities but using that
that illicit drug traffic to in fact
destabilize
friendly governments governments of
allies um one has to wonder at this
point if
if there is any limit to the depths to
which these people will sink
in the pursuit of their particular
political goals and as
again bringing this up to the present
day as we see the unraveling
of the quote iran gate slash contra gate
case
and we see the thieves hurrying around a
rat on each other as is beginning to
happen making deals right and left
we will begin to see what we've already
begun to see the outlines of a similar
type of operation on a much larger scale
that are beginning to come clear
and again in the interrelationship
between the arms train the symbiotic
relationship between the arms and drugs
traffic in the cecilia falcone ring
and in turn the use of the profits
derived from the guns and drugs
to destabilize other governments and in
this case the destabilization of the
chavarria government
in certain respects recalls the
destabilization of the gulf whitlam
government
involving in considerable measure the
new gun hand bank
now for about the next roughly two hours
of our program what we're going to be
doing is in essence
dipping back into our own archives what
we're going to be talking about for
about the next two hours
concerns an arms for drugs ring which
again was a u.s
intelligence operation almost
exclusively and that arms for drugs ring
is called ste-bom s-t-i-b-a-m
we covered ste bomb in radio free
america show number 20 the fourth in our
five programs
done in may of 1986 about italian
politics italian covert politics and in
particular the shooting of pope john
paul ii in may of 1981.
on this evening's broadcast we're going
to recap and recapitulate
of roughly two hours or so of the most
important material about stee bomb for
two reasons
not only is it very important in the uh
context of the current discussion
the use of the drug trade in order to
finance covert operations and the
interrelationship between
the drug trade and the arms trade that
our national security apparatus
operates the one to finance the other
inconsiderable measure
but in particular on a couple of details
several important details
of the stephon armstrong drugs ring at
this point appear to be pointing
in exactly the same direction as the
conjugate iran gate situation
we don't know yet whether the two will
eventually hook up but it's beginning to
look that way
and we're going to recap the steam on
material not only because it's very
important
in terms of our present context but it
appears to uh point in the direction
of iran gate hyphen conjugate and again
iran gate conjugate is something that
we're it at bottom appears to also
involve the interrelationship
of the arms trade and drug trade and
involvement in the drug trade
by our national security establishment
that's one of the elements
front and center in the uh steve baum
arms for drugs ring
and what we're going to be doing now is
recapping
is re recapping a section of radio free
america number 20
this from may actually this was may 22nd
1986 and this looked to last roughly the
next couple of hours or so
this article is from the san francisco
examiner for thursday november 25th
1982 it's headlined biggest in quotes
arms ring
busted sub-headed italians swapped
copters
tanks for heroin dateline verizee italy
upi wire story investigators cracked
what was called
quote the world's biggest illegal arms
trafficking organization
that sent millions of weapons to the
middle east in return for heroin
and other drugs judge carlo palermo
in charge of the investigation said
yesterday that the arms the organization
sent to various middle east countries
included helicopters
german leopard tanks and machine guns
i should just mention that a little
later in the broadcast we'll find out
that there were weapons even more
impressive
than leopard tanks and helicopters
involved continuing the article
in return the milan-based organization
brought into italy heroin and other
drugs through agents in turkey and other
middle east countries
the judge said he said most of the drugs
went to northern europe and but some
also went to southern italy in sicily
where the mafia runs a multi-million
dollar racket
smuggling drugs to the united states
quote
we have cracked the world's biggest
illegal arms trafficking organization
which had milan and the middle east as
its terminals
unquote palermo said making another
insert
uh when they say they had milan it had
milan as its headquarters as we will
find out later in the broadcast not only
did it have mala as its headquarters but
it had a very
specific and very interesting for our
purpose
building as its headquarters in milan
going along with the article
quote over a period of years they sent
millions of war weapons including heavy
tanks and helicopters
to the middle east for which they were
paid in narcotics unquote
the judge said 41 members of the ring
have been arrested and would face trial
in february
arrest warrants have been issued against
another 159 suspects
but action on these would depend on the
outcome of the continuing investigation
he said the investigation started in
december 1980
as a routine check into drug running in
the milan area
a turk named asim akaja reportedly gave
police information that led to discovery
of
310 pounds of heroin buried in zinc
packets
near a villa in bolzano and a hotel in
toronto
in the alpine region of northeast italy
but the judge said the full extent of
the arms for drugs ring emerged only
recently
when police arrested henry arsane
a-r-s-a-n
aged 70 a syrian in verize
judge palermo described arsene as quote
a big shot
in the world scene of arms trafficking
police also jailed arsene's italian wife
giovanna
age 54 on charges of taking part in
illegal arms and drug trafficking
from documents found in arsenal's
possession police located the
headquarters of the ring
in an import export company in milan
called
st bom s-t-i-b-a-m
bomb international transport the judge
gave no indication
where the tanks and helicopters came
from but press reports that the gang had
links with weapons manufacturers
in france west germany and belgium
okay a couple of points to make as we
will find out not only france west
germany and belgium
but they had intense and very close and
in fact governmental ties
with arms manufacturers in the united
states
also as mentioned before uh steve um's
head offices were in milan as we will
find out i don't want to spoil the
surprise for those of you don't know
in a very interesting location in milan
okay and
remember henry r sandler the name steve
because those are the main focuses
foci for the rest of the broadcast
today after the article nitrous region
appeared specifically november 26
1982 the following article appeared in
the same paper the san francisco
examiner
on 11 26 82 the examiner ran this story
an ap
story out of milan under the headline
did big italian bank finance arms gang
and the subhead is smugglers had an
office in its building it reads as
follows
italian police are investigating whether
the scandal plagued bankrupt
bancombriciano
an international gang of arms and drug
smugglers says italian tv
police began questioning bank officials
yesterday after it was learned that the
smugglers
described by a magistrate as the largest
world organization of illegal arms
traffic unquote
had an office above an ambrosiano branch
in milan
the state tv channel rai said i would
interrupt that that is the main branch
the headquarters of bancombraciano
continuing the former vice president of
the ambrosiano roberto rasson
denied that the bank was involved rai
reported
investigators said the gang furnished
middle east countries including iran
with arms exported eagerly illegally
from europe and the united states
it named no other countries helicopters
and armored cars were
exported exported illegally in exchange
for narcotics the investigating
magistrate carlo palermo was quoted as
saying
and the drugs mainly heroin were then
sold in europe
police captured the alleged head of the
gang henry arsane a 70 year old syrian
and his italian wife giovanna 54.
the magistrate said they were charged
with illegal traffic of arms and
narcotics
arsan owned a hauling company that
occupied offices rented from banco
ambrosiano in milan
and served as a front for the gang
police said
warrants are out for 200 other suspected
members of the gang including several
greeks
turks and new turks and yugoslavs
palermo said
during a two-year investigation police
discovered that the gang had invested
proceeds in banks in austria
west germany and switzerland police
began working on the case in nineteen
eighty after a lebanese turk named
makaya tipped off his brother a police
officer
other press reports said that the
smugglers were working in collaboration
with the sicilian mafia so this huge
arms for drug smuggling ring and bear in
mind momentary agia and the gray wolves
connections to
drug smuggling from that part of the
world and the speculation about the
ibfecki murder
our sands arms for drugs ring the
largest illegal arms exporting
operation in the world is not only
located right above
bank on braziano's headquarters in milan
but is rented
from banco on bristiano it was from that
the windows of that building that
roberto calvi secretary in the late
unfortunate alberto de la ca
uh sewer well basically they went from
the windows whether their own volition
or somebody else's as appears probable
we'll probably never know for sure
uh this same bank the same bank building
the milan
uh ambrosiano headquarters it would have
a
office for the man named roberto rasson
who was shot in an assassination attempt
outside
those headquarters we'll be talking
about the people abrucciati and balducci
again in just a couple of minutes now
again just to uh
solidify excuse me some of these points
here
um less anybody still out there some
uh some peter pan devotee out there who
still believes in fairies
um would like to think that this is mere
case of coincidence let's point out
again that
as we detailed earlier in the broadcast
um at the far end of this particular
program
we've seen already at the far end of
this particular operation excuse me
in south and central america p2
um international fascista and these
other organizations are directing money
uh from italy from places specifically
the banco ambrosiano
into phony uh dummy companies in south
and central america where that money is
being used to sponsor
terrorism to transport drugs
into the united states in return for
weapons in other words we've already
seen
that the far end of the p2 connections
into south and central america
are actively involved in this guns and
drug trade
at the other end we have seen that the
right-wing terrorists also involved with
p2
are connected with the phalanges
training camps out of these same
phalanges
operations are coming the other end of
the drug smuggling
in the middle of the operation is the
banco ambrosiana one of the main banks
that the p2 and uh and its
uh its uh directors its fascist
directors were using
to uh finance these operations in
uh in italy and in south and central
america and presumably some of that
money was also going
to get these right-wing terrorists
trained in
uh the phalanges training camps in
lebanon and in the same
main bank building of the bancombrosiano
the headquarters for this entire ste
bomb operation
just happens to be upstairs now folks i
think even
um the most skeptical of you out there
will have real difficulty stretching the
bounds of coincidence
to that extreme in fact an article we're
going to read in a few minutes
uh concludes with a statement that this
asks this
no the exact phrase is too many
coincidences and uh one of the things
that they're looking at
is uh the subject of the article notes
about to read you namely
a number of other intersections between
the ste bomb arms for drugs ring
and the banco ambrosiano associations
and
that that meaning roberto calvi and
people around him in the p2 nexus
absolutely now we're going to read
another jonathan marshall translation of
an article that originally appeared in
corriere de la serra
the italian newspaper for december 31st
1982.
it's headlined a who's who of the italo
turkish
drug trade the turkish bosses
the last oh by the way i should just
mention for the rest of the broadcast
dave and i are going to be reading a lot
of turkish names um of all the languages
that we wrestle with on this broadcast i
think turkish is probably the most
difficult for us so any native turkish
speakers
or turkic language experts in the
audience please bear with us
um we're just going to try and make them
consistent and we'll spell them whenever
possible although we won't spell all of
them because there's so many
in general when we're dealing with the
foreign names on a cold read here we
have to ask your indulgence
the turkish bosses the last arrest
warrant
signed by judge palermo on december 22
two concerned ismail oflu age thirty
nine
international smuggler considered the
king of the turkish underworld
he had his hand in every branch of
turkish crime especially the traffic and
drugs
and guns offload o f l eu was for a time
a refuge a refugee in sophia and the
turkish police asked for his extradition
for a whole series of crimes including
three homicides
but after a few months his tracks were
lost in holland
tuaflu are directly tied seal hussain
age 40 mustafa ki sachik age 55 and
nahik assan
age 60 called by judge palermo quote
three world class promoters of the
traffic and drugs and guns who developed
with the base
of with a base of contacts in sophia
sofia bulgaria obviously
the three men are in fact heads of the
three most powerful turkish mafia
families which have a monopoly on the
production of drugs in the syrian
border region where the poppies are
grown all three
besides are friends and partners of
henry arsene remember henry arsene is
the
the main man at this point at st now
they're naming some names
represented the turkish families in
milan was based in a luxury apartment
downtown
many were his business contacts with
arsane and above all with carl
cuffler herbert oberhoefer and gerlando
alberti
zerolando alberti whom he met several
times in milan
his job meaning waka's job was to route
the morphine base to alberti who would
have it refined
in sicily now carl cuffler one of those
names mentioned kofler born in trento
age 55 arrested december 1980 and driven
into a corner
with his revelations he will aid judge
palermo to round up the ring that
supplied oberhofer the drugs found in in
his garden
and in the vineyard in bolzano he was in
contact with the brothers coons
k u n z in zurich on march 7 1981 he was
found dead in his cell in trento
herbert
ex-trafficker and four years a
confidante and collaborator with the
guardia d
finanza that's the finance police
the day and by the way we mentioned
earlier in the broadcast i can't
remember the gentleman's name now but
one of the key members of the i think
actually the leader
of the italian guardia di finanza the
finance police was a member of p2
uh judice was the man's name and in fact
he was appointed by a cardinal paletti
who had a lot to do with getting him uh
to where he was and that we talked about
that in our second program
the day after the descript discovery of
the drugs that matarelo
police found in the vineyard near
bolzano the remainder of the stock
130 kilos of pure heroin and morphine by
the way when they say their discovery
the drugs in monorail that's the
original steve bomb arrest that we read
you the article about from november of
82.
130 kilos of pure heroin and morphine
were discovered in oberhofer's vineyard
near bolzano arrested and held for
several weeks oberhofer is now wanted
he had business ties with coons wakas
and henry arsan
now the coons brothers how albert and
hans koons
financiers in zurich they were calvi's
men
tied also to carboni's sofient they were
supposed to have directed in iran a load
of arms from the united states and
directed by israel
acting in close contact with arsenal and
if i remember correctly hans kunz
was in london meeting with calvi the day
before
he was found dead the exact chronology
of calvi's travels just before his death
i forget but both koon's brothers were
contacted by calvi on hit on i guess you
could call it calvi's last ride
right exactly they were actually in
london as i recall from the from the
stories
with calvi um anyway so that's the coons
brothers but notice again now
the coons brothers in close contact with
arsenal also in close contact with
roberto calvi
p2 member confidant of popes and
uh leader uh chairman of the banco
ambrosiano okay so if you need to tie
that knot any tighter
there's another contact right there
it'll be tied still tight it would also
be worth noting here uh what happened to
carl kofler he was an alleged prison
suicide he managed to commit suicide by
thrusting himself through the heart with
a long sharp needle that
uh another one of these very suspicious
suicides in connection with this case
jalondo alberti of palermo age 55
ex-lieutenant of luciano legio
get back to lee joe in a second by 1980
alberti had control over the entire
traffic and drugs to the us
he was arrested thanks to the
investigation of boris juliano
in connection with the discovery of the
huge heroin refineries at chinese and
punta raici
in milan alberti had ties to wakas
through his lieutenant angelo mirai now
luciano legio was the head of anonymous
sequestery which was a mafia kidnap
gang that was also working for the right
wing
and involved with the strategy of
tension
and when it originally begun as a
program for kidnapping businessmen
holding them for ransom expanded into a
program
that was a part of the strategy
attention now it was through the
investigation of the nominee sequestered
with links to the mafia to the p2 to
western intelligence
it was through this investigation that
judge accordio had begun it had come
across the p2 lodge and had begun
investigating the p2 lodge
georgia corcia was then assassinated by
the aforementioned preluichi conchitelli
of ordinando and international
as we looked at last week acting at the
behest of stefano de la
quie okay continuing
domenico balducci mafia boss tied to
alberti for whom he was the roman
representative of the traffic and drugs
he was a business partner of flavio
carboni
again flavio carboni intimate of
michaela sendona and later
uh a partner of uh of roberto calvi
uh balducci was a business partner
flavio carboni in the punta volpe real
estate project in sardinia
which asked ambrosiano for a loan of six
billion lira
calvey said yes but he was blocked by
his vice president roberto rossone
who was attacked several months later
balducci was sought by police at the end
of 1978 for having signed bank
transactions of dirty money
originating in kidnappings and drugs
from which palermo and naples
ended up in sedonas uh is indones almond
core bank in switzerland
he was assassinated in rome in front of
his house on 16th of november of october
1981.
now um oh okay let's be explained right
here so i'll go ahead
danilo abruzziyati killed april 26 1982
in milan while trying to shoot roberto
rossone
boss of the roman underworld especially
drugs and extortion
former member of anonymous equestria
again that's the luciano legio group we
were just talking about
of the marseille gang barangay and
bergamelli
was in business contact with balducci
and diota
the latter of whom was a partner of
calvi and present in
zurich at the moment of calvi's flight
with a police record and now wanted
dioto levy
is another key man in the connection
between the roman underworld
businesses tied to sophie and the
sicilian mafia
skipping on down this is still oh that
that that'll do it
okay that refers to the next story here
that no there i should have crossed that
out
so a couple of things to note here the
domenico balducci and danilo abracati as
we indicated earlier
were two of the key people involved in
the attempted assassination of roberto
rosson banco braziano vice chairman
which took place right outside the same
building where ambrosiana was
headquartered
and where st bomb is headquartered right
upstairs now abu chatty affiliated with
the aforementioned anonymous equestria
and uh well basically to make a long
story short
all of these people part of the whole p2
nexus and ominous equestria provided the
key to the discovery
of p2 was mentioned just a second ago
and it's worth with reviewing it we have
balducci
abrucciati guerlando alberti all of them
affiliated with the mafia with an
ominous sequester with the p2 complex
the kahan the koons brothers uh herbert
oberhoffer and carl kaufler
the last one carl kaufler while in
prison we're going to look at some more
prison related deaths
in in this whole complex uh karl koffler
managed to kill himself by thrusting
himself through the heart
with a long sharp needle
now we're going to be uh taking a look
at some more connections now this again
remember that um
the oh hang on one second why don't you
uh
why don't you interpolate here a second
nip while i manipulate the tapes okay
again the connections
um that are coming out now okay just to
to make this plain for those of you who
are fairly new to this stuff
um we're talking about this whole
operation that we already explained as
being intimately involved with the
vatican bank
the use of the vatican bank apparently
by archbishop martinkis
for not only to make money but to make
money many ways illegally
aided and abetted by roberto caldwell
and michaeli sendona we're finding out
now that these same
groups that archbishop paul martinkis
had the vatican bank involved in
are not only involved in these financial
scandals which are bad enough in them of
themselves
but are involved in the world's biggest
fascist oriented
guns for terrorism network ste bomb and
we've seen now the net has drawn so
tight as to be inescapable there are no
more coincidences
uh ste bomb is a direct contact if it's
not actually direct
arm of the p2 as is the bancom rossiano
at this point
and uh it should be noted that p2 itself
involves a much much larger context
involving international fast
fascism western intelligence and the cia
and other us intelligence agencies in
particular
we're going to be talking about that in
connection with steve a little later
still another connection between the
banquo braziano p2 complex
and steve almost carried in the
following story again research credit to
ted rubenstein translation jonathan
marshall
this is from the italian news magazine
le espresso of the issue of december 12
1982. the headline of the article is
amid arms and drugs between
sofia and brazia skipping now in the
article
coming out talking about steve balm here
arsan comes from a noble family and was
in italy for 20 years
undisturbed in his traffic despite being
known at the time to the dea remember
that we're going to come back to it
his telephone began to spill important
information
it made clear that the little old man
had his hand in the international arms
trade but it didn't clarify where the
arms left
and where they ended up that mosaic
began to come together at the beginning
of the year
when police listening in learned a new
name long known to them
renato gamba last name gamba
an armorer with a factory in valtropia
in the province of brescia
was known for his production of precious
small cow that's so valuable it really
would be a better translation of
valuable small caliber pistols and
hunting rifles
who would have ever expected someone
like that to be involved in the traffic
and armored cars and assault helicopters
but sure enough one day at the beginning
of summer he left for the temp that
temple of intrigue the hotel richmond in
geneva
the task assigned him by arsene to find
for an anxiously awaiting buyer
20 armored cars 25 tanks and 10
helicopters
police intercepted calls between gamba
in geneva and arsan in milan
they investigated further and found some
surprises
first in the spring of 1982 new capital
came to gamba's plant
it was sent by a milan finance house
izar born as an honorable maker of
pottery and silver which transformed
itself within a few months
under the guidance of little known
persons suggesting that they were
figureheads
acting on behalf of others by the way
brodie izar's bro ggi
the second word is i z a r continuing
the new owners had the clear and long
considered idea of quickly creating a
defense division unquote to sell arms of
all types and electronic systems
they entrusted this to a foreigner
reginald alas al-las
famous in the world of arms who prided
himself on having access to both the
pentagon
and the kremlin he began investing money
in the business to produce light arms
with difficulty investigators penetrated
this labyrinth and they discovered
something else peculiar
a share two point three percent of
grudgy izar belonged to the banco
braziano of roberto calvi
he must have known that this finance
house was in the business of making arms
police then remembered another curiosity
that before that before looked casual
ste bomb was headquartered in a building
owned by ambrosiano
where lived the former vice president of
the bank roberto rason and i would
interrupt as we just looked at
his killer and the person who apparently
recruited him also very much connected
with the p2 complex and c-bomb
continuing too many coincidences
gamba in search of armored cars
installed himself in the hotel richmond
a place frequented by another person
prominent in the calvi case
hans kunz who organized the final voyage
of the banker to london
he rented the plane that took him there
kun's officially an oil merchant isn't
only that
last august 2nd iran ordered from him 50
million dollars in war equipment
so it in in the case of uh henry arsan
here
uh one of his associates and a person
who apparently did his bidding at met at
at least certain occasions
is a man named renato gamba gambas uh
formerly uh well basically formerly
manufactured
uh commercial firearms that is uh
valuable pistols and hunting rifles
decides to get into the military
armaments uh business and in so doing
he's financed or refinanced by an
organization
very very mysterious but in this article
brody izar
has capital participation albeit only
two percent
by the banco braziano of roberto calvi
uh
in whose headquarters building ste baum
is also headquartered
broadcasting from foothill college this
is kfjc los altos hills
okay now excuse me a very short uh
section of an article here from corey
corriere
de la serra oh the motor functions are
going already
it's only 9 30. from december 11 1982
the headline for the article as a whole
is the investigation into arms traffic
are extending into germany
they're talking again about henry arsen
head of st
bomb and it says oh by the way this is
again a jonathan marshall translation
provided to us by ted rubenstein
it is truly incredible how henry arsane
contacted by the american and turkish
secret services in nineteen
seventy three known by the italian
police
continued undisturbed for twenty years
under the insignia of his milan company
st
bomb uh it's not so much incredible
unless you try and maintain that it's a
coincidence um
again henry arsan contacted by the
american antique turkish secret services
in 1973
also known to italian police for 20
years working um
under in as ste bomb in milan
we're going to hear a little bit more
about henry arsand some of his
connections to western intelligence
which are rather interesting first
however we are going to take a short
break
and give you all a chance to get up and
stretch those of you who are listening
all the way through and uh since dave
and myself have no choice but to be
listening all the way through we're
definitely ready to get up
and stretch and we're going to stretch
our minds and our vocal cords and our
lips and tongues too which are getting
taxed
badly here that's right see if we can
develop that facility that we that we
course one of the world's centers of uh
arms shipments i thought that might also
be appropriate
and what we are talking about of course
is so far
to date the biggest guns and drugs
operation
uh yet brought to light that being ste
bomb
s-t-i-b-a-m and uh that being an
operation apparently directly under the
control
or at least largely under the control of
those
uh those fine gentlemen at the
propaganda do a masonic lodge
notably people like alicia jelly
michaelis sendona
umberto ortolani roberto calvey and
others and as we mentioned henry arsen's
main office of stee bomb
located in the bancombrosiano building
in milan
that same building where once the
scandals started breaking
people went flying out the window there
like popcorn we talked about that a
little bit tonight
but more importantly again we're talking
about a vast circuit
of terror i guess you could say starting
with the drug traffic of the middle east
most notably turkish and lebanese drugs
opium uh heroin uh antecedents
being transshipped by the phalanges with
the help of the turkish fascist group
the grey wolves
into italy into sicily and processing
plants there and going
vents to south and central america up
into the united states at which point
they're exchanged for weaponry
and the reverse circuit begins this is
of course very important because
all along the way money is being made
this is also an organization that is run
entirely by right-wingers
and it seems to be being used mostly to
profit right-wing organizations
right-wing political factions and whole
right-wing governments we talked earlier
about how some of the profits
are probably used one of those areas
being operation condor in which some of
these
uh groups these governments in south
south america got together
and basically developed sanction units
for the elimination of their enemies
not a new concept but one brought to
perfection by people like
stefano de la chiai and other uh
p2 hit men extraordinaire in the section
that we just concluded before the break
we looked at a number of different
connections between the ste bomb arms
for drugs ring in the p2
nexus uh we looked at a part capital
participation by bank on braziano and
one of the key arms suppliers
and rsa and associates gamba we took a
look at an intersection of a lot of
people danilo abraciati
uh domenico balducci and a whole bunch
of other people
associated with roberto calvi flavio
carboni and others
and their connections to st bomb just
before the break nip read a short
section of an article
in which it basically uh the statement
was made that it was truly remarkable
how henry arsan was able to continue
undisturbed for nearly 20 years despite
despite being known to the authorities
well
during this section of the broadcast
we're going to get into some of the
international connections
of steve bauman the influences of some
some of the other people some of the
other stephen elements
beside the p2 complex that we just
delineated
again research credit for the following
story goes to ted rubenstein translation
jonathan marshall
this is from panorama the italian
magazine panorama of may 9th
1983 and it's an interview with judge
carlo palermo the magistrate
investigating steve mom that quotes
the common link among the small and big
traffic is henry arsan
a syrian who frequently stayed in italy
and who had interests in many import
export businesses
he was involved in drugs and was at the
same time
a collaborator of the dea the american
police specializing in the fight against
drug trafficking
a man of a thousand commercial ventures
never scorning the sector of arms
one of the things we've looked at in the
past on our programs
and we're going to be looking at great
length in our series on organized crime
narcotics the intelligence community
is how the dea and other american drug
enforcement administrations
have an in fact or agencies i should say
have in fact
been used to uh traffic drugs as well as
to uh quote enforce against their
distribution
and here we have henry arsan according
to the judge who
investigated this a collaborator of the
dea and nip's about to read you a short
section of an article which will
delete a delineated greater length the
dea connections
of henry arsan
okay reading from again corriere de la
serra
and a short segment from an article of
december 16th 1982 on
5th of august 1973 an agent of the dea
and a special turkish agent made contact
with
arsane the american was thomas
angioletti says a document from the
italian interior ministry quote
from that moment arsene collaborated
with our offices in rome and milan
from which he obtained various permits
with the help of the agent
to obtain 100 kilos of morphine base
from ismet seal and mustafa cyril
it seems that arsenal played a double
game though going from a liquor and
cigarette smuggler
to big time heroin dealer so on the 5th
of august 1973 interestingly 1973 is the
year that a lot of these things start
happening 1973 i think is also the year
that muhammad
uh muammar al-qaddafi took power in
libya and we talked about some earlier
events that started in 1973 but in 1973
an american dea agent thomas angioletti
got together with henry arsen and with
the help of angeletti arsan was able to
obtain
100 kilos of morphine base now 100 kilos
of morphine base
when um translated into heroin i have no
idea how much would
be an incredible quantity of heroin just
a mind staggering amount
okay now the dea operations of uh
henry arsan are worth keeping in mind
because now we're going to be getting
into not only some american connections
but specifically connections between st
bomb and american intelligence and
national security
elements and those connections are
massive also we're going to hear about a
name
of a certain former hollywood movie
actor turned politician who's also going
to crop up in connection with this
series of figures
one of the main scams that steve was
involved involved with was an apparent
attempt to smuggle nuclear weapons to
the middle east and specifically syria
an indictment involving this attempt to
smuggle nuclear weapons
came to light in the santa cruz sentinel
among other papers of june 6
1984 research credit to this to ted
rubenstein this is an ap
story dateline trenton headline 30
accused of trying to sell nuclear arms
and again we're back to ste balm here a
state prosecutor is recommending
indictments against more than thirty
people
for allegedly smuggling weapons and
military vehicles and trying to sell
nuclear weapons
prosecutor enrico caballeri said tuesday
night that he filed the recommendation
with judge carlo palermo
who has spent four years investigating
the arms and drug smuggling ring
among those listed in cavalieri's report
according to the italian
news agency ansa was rasano brazi brazzy
the italian actor known for his movie
role in south pacific
and three coins in the fountain
cavalieri confirmed the answer dispatch
which quoted his report to palermo
he said more than 30 people were
involved in a failed attempt to sell
nuclear weapons to three
unidentified arab nations and to
argentina
but declined to give other details such
as what weapons are nuclear fuel was
actually sold
and who produced them anza said the
group is also suspected of trying to
sell submachine guns tanks
helicopters missiles ships plutonium and
uranium to iraq
taiwan the philippines and argentina
the prosecutor's recommendations are not
binding and are only meant as advice for
the judge who has final
say on indictments under italian law
ansa said palermo filed his
recommendations monday with a trento
court
along with 300 000 pages of documents
details of that report are covered by
italy's official secrets acts the news
agency said cavalieri's 58-page report
recommended indictments for former
military officers
businessmen and several foreigners
and so quoted cavalieri's report is
saying brazil's involvement was unclear
but that he should be indicted so as to
allow a more in-depth
in-depth examination of his role unquote
the actor's rome home was searched last
year on a warrant issued by palermo
also named in the report according to
ansa were colonel massimo pulisi
p-u-g-l-i-e-s-e once head of military
intelligence italian businessman carlo
bertoncini
and egyptian citizen ivan galileos the
report said there was sufficient
evidence to try all the men for criminal
association
the indictment sought by cavalieri as
the latest in a long series of actions
against the ring ansa said
last year 28 of its members were found
guilty of having exported armored cars
and helicopters to iran
and other middle east countries in
exchange for heroin that was marked for
what
marketed in western europe they were
sentenced to up to 18 years in jail
palermo told the state-run rai radio
network last year
that the ring's operations touched
nearly all european countries producing
arms especially italy
west germany spain and britain quote
then there are the transit countries
among them bulgaria
turkey yugoslavia and greece you could
say
all the countries in the mediterranean
area were involved he told the radio
so a couple of the points to underscore
about this we're going to talk about the
nuclear arm smuggling scam or attempt to
smuggle nuclear arms in a little bit
two of the key names to remember here
are asano brazi
about whom we're going to talk in just a
minute and colonel massimo pulisi
a former italian intelligence chief and
as we're going to find out colonel
massimo puysie
the italian intelligence team has
connections with a an italian fascist
organization
which has an awful lot of connections to
an awful lot of other italian
intelligence chiefs
we're going to take a short musical
break here from uh the one the
radio free america show number 25 that
you're listening to now
in this radio free america show number
25 you're listening to an outtake from
radio free america
number 20 the ste bomb show from may of
1986 we'll come back to that in oh five
or ten minutes or so
after giving you all a chance to rest
your thinkers and ears
back in about five to ten minutes
20 number 20. actually this is number 25
this was number 20 that were a re-airing
part of
and this was originally aired on may
22nd 1986
it deals with the arms for drugs rings
ste bomb we will pick up where we left
off by the way
there is a certain degree of overlap
between cassette sides so if you hear a
little bit of repetition it just means
we've changed
cassettes here and might give you an
opportunity to do the same if you
haven't
already done it without losing any text
back to radio free america show number
25 reprising part of radio free america
number 20.
that's right and one of the places where
it comes up and it's mentioned in the
book in god's name by david yalap which
we've been using quite a bit during this
series broadcast
is during 1982 at the time of the
falklands war
and originally licio jelly was
attempting to get extra set missiles
for argentina bear in mind uh
argentina's strong contacts this
argentine military's strong contacts to
the p2
and to italian fascists um uh when we're
thinking about these things
alicia jelly was doing his best to get
extra set missiles
to the argentinian military from france
uh and this first operation fell through
and then yalap writes about the second
one
in august 1982 he writes the argentinian
junta secretly decided to recommence
hostilities against the british forces
guarding the falklands
they felt that with more exo sets they
could win the war
and the islands this time jelly dealt
with a former officer of the italian
secret service
colonel massimo pouliezi a member of p2
again british intelligence learned of
the proposed deal the british took steps
to ensure that the deal fell through
so colonel massimo poulier a member of
p2 also indicted in the ste-bomb case
involved apparently in the same case
with rosano brazzi
as we will find out as we're going along
involved in
uh an attempt to sell uh
some weapons of some extreme magnitude
uh to syria apparently we'll talk about
that more but notice again alicia jelly
the connection to the argentine in
argentinian military junta the p2
connections
and once again also of course most
importantly for our purposes the
connections of the p2
to ste bomb okay and remember the dea
connection of our sand and because we're
going to be getting into some foreign
intelligence connections here
right now rosano brazzy is the name we
want to look at right now and
specifically we're going to look at
brazil's connections to a couple of
american presidents
ronald reagan and richard nixon the
first of the articles we're going to be
looking at comes from the corriere
dallas era of june 4th 1983
again researched by ted rubenstein
translated by jonathan marshall
italian film star rosano bratzy 65 gray
haired now
was the latin lover of the cinema
interrogated by carlo palermo because of
his ties with people in the guns for
drugs trade
what brought him to palermo's attention
was his recent friendship with general
giuseppe santovito
ex-chief of the military secret service
sees me involved with p2
his tie his ties with colonel massimo
pulisi also of the secret service
arrested on orders of the trento
magistrate
pulisi had just returned from al tacoma
where he participated in the funeral of
king umberto
brazi is a personal friend of ronald
reagan and a friend of richard nixon
nothing strange then that the president
of somalia invited him officially along
with santa vito to his country for
economic advice
brazie knows the top american financiers
and could be of help
so before we go on the next article
rosano brazie is a good friend of ronald
reagan's now recall that lucio jelly of
p2
had performed a valuable service for
ronald reagan on two counts getting him
good publicity in the italian press
and perhaps even more importantly than
that through the auspices of the p2
controlled super sesame and francesco
pacienza
and michael ladine as we looked at in
our last program
the uh licio jelly again through the
super season group group pacienza
was able to help get uh damaging
information about
billy carter specifically talking about
billy carter's connections
with moamir qaddafi of libya who in turn
has obviously as we've looked at
many connections to the p2 complex in
and of himself
however the damaging information
published in the new republic and one
other publication i forget offhand
was instrumental in helping to uh assure
a reagan victory and
as i said alicia jelly also generated
favorable publicity for reagan
in italy and uh quite probably as a
result of those two events
uh licio jelly was a guest of honor at
ronald reagan's inauguration
in nineteen eighty one so when we have
broxie the
ste bomb linked and uh through stephen p
two linked
actor being a friend of reagan's it's
worth taking note of also
he's the brazilian is a friend of
richard nixon the connections between
the nixon administration and the p2
complex through michaelis sendona among
others
we looked at in programs two and three
and
another name to take note of in this
article is giuseppe santovito
keef person in in the uh super seasoning
group within italian intelligence
key p2 member and santa vito along with
mark
p fellow p tour and fellow italian
intelligence veteran massimo pulisi
involved with rossano brazil apparently
in some of these machinations
second article we're going to bring in
those some of the same connections
and we're going to mention a very
familiar name in addition to ronald
reagan and richard nixon
from panorama of the may 16th 1983 we
find the following
a sicilian doctor named gregorio close
to brazil decided to name himself
grand master of the sovereign order of
new aragon found that according to him
by the visigoths in
ad718 his idea was to conquer the island
of barbuda
in the caribbean with eleven hundred and
fifty inhabitants
as sidekick he recruited his friend of
15 years brazi
brazi says his old friend frank sinatra
introduced him to reagan in nineteen
forty eight the two men went on in the
project went in on the project with
massimo pulisi
whom brought him back in 1974 when the
ex-sid official approached him to do a
documentary on sakura sindone
cbs 60 minutes did a show called return
of the visigoths of the new on the new
return of the visigoths on the new
aragon movement
dean rusk and tom watson seem to have
been involved
so some more big american names coming
in uh
surfacing in connection with rossano
brazil massimo pulisi
and some of the key st-bomb performers
not only ronald reagan and richard nixon
both american presidents with
connections to the p2 complexes as we
looked at but also frank sinatra
and possibly also former secretary of
state dean rusk as well
now the 60 minutes program referred to
um
the the return of the visigoths
suggested that um
although um the people involved in
rosanna brazil was one of the people
interviewed
although the people involved were
suggesting that uh they just basically
wanted this island of barbuda just to be
their
uh kind of home for their particular uh
uh sort of catholic oriented
organization that in fact what it was
probably being looked at
as was an offshore tax haven and in fact
robert vesco
had been in the area sometime just
before rosanna brazzy and these others
looking at barbuda for exactly those
purposes and offshore tax haven remember
that is very important
in these huge arms and drugs operations
uh because
these places since they are not subject
to uh the income taxes of countries like
the united states
uh france or italy or whatever it's much
easier to hide their doings
uh from government officials honest
government officials
broadcasting from foothill college this
is kfjc los altos hills
and in keeping in mind uh reagan nixon
frank sinatra dean rusk with sono brazil
police santa vito and the people we've
been talking about
we're going to begin getting still
further into the american connections to
ste baum and we're going to begin by
taking a look at a guy named garth
reynolds
that's right and talking about your your
offshore uh your offshore arms
and and tax haven uh we're going to be
talking about the ultimate in the
offshore tax haven
this is an article from the sunday times
of london
the article is written by robin morgan
anthony terry and
albert halenstein uh came out on the
issue of uh december 5th 1982 its
headline dealers tout arms
in floating bazaars this article was
supplied to us by ted rubenstein
the article itself we're going to skip
the beginning but it's talking about
basically uh international arms dealers
who are using
[ __ ] steamers to set up huge floating
arms bazaars that's b b-a-z-a-a-r
bazaars and uh using those as a as a
offshore
uh arms dealerships and one of them
they're talking about in particular is
an american by the name of garth
reynolds who has uh who had at that time
steamed into london
and had supplied a catalog uh listing
all the things that he had for sale
the article talks a little bit about
reynolds background
reynolds surfaced briefly in los angeles
in 1980
when customs officers arrested him on
currency charges
but he disappeared once more he has
since been linked to a seventy
one-year-old syrian arms dealer henry
arsan
arsan was erected arrested two weeks ago
at his home in verizon northern italy on
illegal arms trade charges after a
two-year investigation
a search of his office uncovered copies
of telex messages
dated december 12 1981 offering a list
of arms almost identical when the
reynolds wears
the arms were similarly stored aboard
ship in genoa
with identical conditions of sail in
addition to the helicopters and rockets
arsan had added 10 german german-built
leopard tanks
and quote thousands of soviet-made
kalishnikov
rifles unquote a total package worth 138
million
pounds let me just cut in
parenthetically here
parenthetically here to mention that one
of the most important things for us to
remember
is when we're talking about things like
the strategy of tension and we're
talking about
uh journalistic disinformation by people
like claire sterling
one of the ways that they usually try
and tie these
uh terrorist acts to the left is to
uh point out that a lot of them are are
committed with
um soviet weapons or what soviet block
weaponry will notice here that henry
arsane
um a terrorist tied i mean an arms
dealer tied directly to fascist
terrorists
has got himself hundreds of thousands of
soviet-made kalishnikov rifles
and in just a moment we'll find out how
these weapons get into the hands of
these people
sources in the arms trade and italian
police believe the helicopters and tanks
did not exist
they were used as bait to attract big
spending arms buyers in the hopes
of selling the huge batches of infantry
weapons a classic ruse
in black market arms deals other telexes
dated as recently as two months ago were
found in arsenal's files offering
further shipments of arms aboard ships
in italian
ports such vast amounts of illegal
weapons have begun to appear on the
black market only in the past two years
at first they came from libya and other
arab countries eager to offload surplus
soviet arms
but more recently arms caches
in lebanon left behind by the
palestinian evacuation
have flooded the market so we have um
essentially a lot of these soviet-made
weapons are coming from libya
and coming from lebanon being put on the
international market by people like
henry arsan
and garth reynolds this american who is
tied to our scent
now one of the interesting things about
that article that nip just read you was
garth reynolds
presence in los angeles now his presence
in los angeles in connection with the st
bomb ring is not at all surprising and
particularly in light of the following
article
again research credit to ted rubenstein
translation for jonathan marshall
this is from the french magazine of
march fourteenth nineteen eighty three
asi makaya brother of a police inspector
in ankara was charged by him to reveal
to italian authorities
the existence of a vast trafficking arms
and heroin beginning in turkey
transiting through bulgaria for rallying
near trento a city near venice
milan police took the case to judge
carlo palermo on november twenty second
nineteen seventy nine no one knows why
akasha told historic arakaya told his
story
but it was incredible heavy trucks tir
that's the name of the manufacturer
loaded up with heroin and turkey or
light arms in syria
loaded up in with heroin and turkey or
light arms in syria for terrorists
and dropped their loads in trento for
distribution throughout italy
austria west germany britain and even
france
in the reverse route cargoes of arms
left
los angeles for points around the world
carabinieri invaded the hotel karina
belonging to carlo coffler by the way i
would add that carlo coffler was
the steve baum associate who wound up
committing suicide by thrusting a large
needle through his own heart
in prison like so many other people who
die in prison uh beginning that sentence
again
carabinieri invaded the hotel carinae
belonging to carlo coffler
the home of butcher giorgio malone the
villa of herbert oberhoffer in bolsano
they discovered 140 kilos of heroin they
found drugs in verona and trieste
akaya's information was exact two
hundred and twenty people were arrested
three of the most important names proved
to be on vr san
70 memet a n t a s 46 a turk
shipper with a company called sutas in
los angeles
and bakir chaleng c e l e n k
drug trafficking turk based in sophia
i'm going to read those three names
again because they're very important
in particular back here tonight three of
the most important names in this again
we're talking about steve
proved to be already 70.
46 a turk shipper with a company called
sutas in los
angeles bakir chalang drug trafficking
turk
based in sofia akaya has disappeared
executed that is a question mark there
arsan cracked under interrogation
he said the guns for drugs traffic had
been going on for 20 years
he admitted that he was in charge of
recycling the billions
and laundering the dollars that would
interrupt perhaps that's what the
proximity to ambrosiano was
was for he also produced figures on arms
trade around 300 tanks
and nearly as many helicopters salvaged
from vietnam
he spoke of arms deliveries to homaini
kantos escaped ahead of american police
and made it to zurich where his shipping
company has headquarters
he denies touching drugs that was bakir
chalang's job
so the main points here are that the
steve baum arms for drugs ring had a
major branch originating
in los angeles where we saw garth
reynolds an american connected with the
ring surfacing in the last article that
nip read you
now in los angeles a man named kantas
another turk is basically running the
show out of a shipping company called
sutas
based in zurich switzerland and perhaps
the most important name here
for our purposes and uh bear in mind
that we're gravitating towards the
shooting of pope john paul the second
is bakir chaleng described as a drug
trafficking turk based in sophia
recall the fascist grey wolves and
momenta lee ajah's participation in that
group and their connection
to narcotics trafficking originating in
turkey and quite possibly the ab d i
pecky murder
because bakir chilenk is one of the key
figures
in the supposed bulgarian connection of
the plot to shoot the pope
so again arsan and all of p2 and western
connections arsan himself a dea agent
so with rosano brazi we have connections
to nixon reagan frank sinatra as well as
p2 members puliacy and santa vito
now we're moving to the united states we
have a major branch of this company in
los angeles
and bakir chaleng one of the key figures
from the pope shooting plot
one of the top three people in st bomb
and also as mentioned
like mehmed ali ajah connected to
the gray wolves drug trafficking in the
middle east
and read an article from the san jose
mercury for december 23rd
1982 the headline is italian warrant
link's drug ring
attack on pope this is the los angeles
times wire story dateline rome
an arrest warrant alleging arms and drug
trafficking
was issued wednesday for bakir chalink a
turk suspected of aiding turkish
terrorist mahmut ali ajah
in his attempt to assassinate pope john
paul ii
on may 13 1981.
the warrant issued in the northern
italian city of trento was the first
time that the alleged arms ring was
publicly linked to one of the alleged
plotters against the pope
in trento state prosecutor carlo palermo
said that warrants had been issued for
chilean
and a turkish associate named ismail
offloo
in connection with the smuggling ring
meanwhile the trial of an italian couple
charged with espionage in bulgaria
began in sofia wednesday with a
postponement at the request of the
defendants
according to the official official
bulgarian news agency bta
italian police last month broke up what
they said was
quote the largest world organization of
illegal arms traffic
operating in bulgaria italy west germany
and turkey
selling large quantities of arms to
mainly middle east buyers in exchange
for heroin
bulgaria is quote a principal contact
point
unquote in arms and drug traffic italian
justice minister clelio darida said
monday
chilenk who is reported under detention
in sophia
and the bulgarian secret service have
been linked to the papal assassination
attempt by rome investigating magistrate
illario
martella well we're going to be talking
more about this so-called bulgarian
connection
but again note at this point as we begin
to close in
on the the closer innermost circle of
the mediterranean merry-go-round and
note these direct
connections we have
mehmed ali ajah the assassin the
would-be assassin of the pope
working in working with the fascist gray
wolves
and working with their drug smuggling
presumably um the fastest gray wolves uh
involved with drug smuggling may made
alejah a member of that group
bakir chilenk who as we're going to find
out is connected
um not only to mehmed ali ajah but to
the gray wolves themselves
bakir shalank also is involved with
mehmet ali ajah
and in fact helps him to get the gun
that he uses
to attempt to shoot john paul the second
actually the the the
ajah himself although changed his story
identified the kirchen length we'll talk
about this next time as the pay master
for the plot supposedly he paid
several million marks it's it's more
than a minor pointer not to pick nits
but
uh recording right now according to his
job
this is the man who paid him this is the
pay master for the whole bulgarian plot
as we've seen he's one of the top three
men in a
fa an explicitly fascist link arms for
drugs ring with connections to american
intelligence that we're going to be
developing
uh whose associates intersect with
american presidents
for about the last 20 years and things
of that kind and so this is the pay
master here we'll be talking about that
next time
good point i'm glad you made that
correction okay so the person who got on
the gun is interesting too we'll be
going into that that's right yes yes
we're going to get to them in a moment
uh well actually next week mostly
okay but again mehmed ali ajah directly
linked through both his organization
and through the operation itself and the
payment rendered by bakir chilenk [ __ ]
baker link a member of steve baum
international guns for drugs
organization inextricably linked with p2
as we have seen as well as american
intelligence
for the purposes right now inextricably
linked with p2
and in fact apparently laundering the
money through the offices that they
shared
with the bancombrosian of milan p2
and the bancombrosiano milan directly
linked
into the vatican bank and the uh the
bodyguard
of john paul ii the man who was shot at
archbishop paul martinkis head of the
vatican bank collaborator with michaelis
sendona
and roberto calvi and all these
financial affairs many of which
coincide or intersect directly with c
bomb so we have basically a very short
connected chain
of about one two three four five places
directly between
mammoth aliaja and archbishop paul
marchinkas the pope's gotti bodyguard
and the head of the vatican bank on the
other hand as we will see later on
um the the chain of very dismal
circumstantial evidence
attempting to paint a case for the
bulgarian thesis is so convoluted as to
be
almost inconceivable how anybody could
even try and pass it off in the first
place
let alone have the success with it they
did bear in mind as we're going into
this stuff later on
this direct and in incontrovertible
chain of evidence
between mehmed aliyah john the vatican
itself a very short
very very impressively sturdy
chain and remember also something we'll
be developing at much greater length
next week and we'll be encountering here
in a few minutes
the western intelligence connections to
ste bomb one branch of it originates in
los angeles the sutas shipping company
and uh bakir chalenk the reputed
paymaster and we'll be talking about
this next week the reputed pay master
of the pope shooting plot is one of the
top three officials
in the st-bomb arms for drugs ring as
we're going to look at he also
is affiliated with the gray wolves the
fascist turkish uh the basically the
the fascist party of turkey or the youth
wing of it research credit for the
following story again goes to ted
rubinstein he got this from the guardian
formerly the manchester guardian
i say that to distinguish it from a an
american leftist publication called the
guardian
but uh ted got this from the manchester
guardian of november 29th
1982 it's from the guardians uh
correspondent in rome george armstrong
and headlined
a ja to confront accused bulgar only
going to read a couple of short sections
skipping down
a turkish author and journalist mr
ugurumu
we're coming back to him later in next
week's broadcast widely regarded in
ankara as the country's most
knowledgeable person on the turkish
underground outside the police
said he learned without doubt that bakir
chaleng
one of those whose name is on the
international warrant had met aja in the
vitosha hotel in sofia between july 10th
and twelfth nineteen eighty
he said the chilean was using a false
passport in the name of nakati chalik
and stayed in room 1078 while ajah
stayed in room 911.
mister mum choose stated that chelank
and oral
the other man wanted in italy were like
a ja
members of the extreme right wing group
known as the grey wolves
and had fled turkey after the military
coup in nineteen eighty so
the kircher link according to this uh uh
information which in turn quotes
you generally considered the as
mentioned here not only the country's
top
uh expert on the underground but uh with
one extension of that underground
specifically
considered turkey's top terrorism
researcher
and uh according to mum chu baker
chilenk is a member of the fascist gray
wolves
along with mahmouth ali ajah and hit and
challenge
key position in the ste bomb arms for
drugs ring worth remembering
in that context now another possible
connection between st
bomb and the shooting of the pope is
mentioned in the same guardian article
of november 29
1982 it's a mysterious connection uh
unresolved but one which will make more
sense later in the broadcast
the italians would also like to question
a gerard donovan
known also as jay douziar d-o-u-z-i-a-r
who holds an australian and iranian
passport he was last seen in rome in
spring of last year and in his haste to
leave
he left a large amount of money behind
in a safe deposit box
they believe he may have been involved
in the attempt on the pope's life
and in the giant drug and arm smuggling
ring which has been discovered in
northern italy which included bulgarian
and turkish connections so another
interesting possible connection between
ste baum and the pope shooting
an australian known as gerard donovan
who carries
australian and iranian passports and who
goes also under the name of j
dozier as we're going to see we've
already looked at that the
iranian connections that was mentioned
in the article of
uh well in several of the articles
actually of ste bomb involvement with
arms to iran
it's worth noting here the australian
passport that's going to make much more
sense later in the program
okay going to read a very short segment
from a washington post article of
december 8 1982
the headline three bulgarians linked to
shooting of the pope the article is
written by sorry gilbert
as a special to the post and it's uh
just a short segment here
it says one name mentioned in reports on
the smuggling network that smuggling
network of course being ste bomb
is that of abuser ugurulu u-g-u-r-l-u
a major turkish criminal who reportedly
met aja in bulgaria and was named in u.s
media reports as a key link between ajah
and the bulgarians
martella that's judge ilario martella
flew to ankara
to question ugorlow who the magistrate
said in an interview earlier this fall
denied any involvement in the
assassination attempt
okay so the uh the the the definite
connection between the supposed
bulgarian
thesis and uh the well basically before
getting into the bulgarian this is the
definite connection between st bomb and
the plot against the pope
is bakir chilenk a fellow gray wolf
according to the top turkish expert on
the subject of
metallia the gray wolves very much
involved in the narcotics traffic
originating in considerable measure
in turkey and the kitchen link is the
pay master for this proposed plot
two other names interestingly enough of
the aforementioned abu zur ogurlu
also a mysterious australian named
gerard donovan also who holds a passport
jay dozier
uh we'll take a look at the possible a
possible australian connection here in
fact a definite australian connection
well in in a couple of articles that
we're about to get into right now
now one of the most important aspects of
ste bomb
one which obviously has been implied to
a certain extent by the fact that henry
arsan is a
dea agent of long standing bought drugs
in fact morphine based from the dea
with the many interesting american
connections rossano brought his
connections to sinatra reagan and nixon
the link up between garth reynolds and
uh
the steve bomb arms for drugs ring and
the fact of course that
one key branch of that ring began
originated
in los angeles what we're going to be
looking at now specifically
is the massive massive intersection of
western intelligence specifically
american intelligence
with the ste bomb arms for drugs ring
and remember that one of its key figures
reportedly the pain master
in the plot to shoot the pope
research credit for the following
articles also goes to ted rubenstein in
translation once again to jonathan
marshall editorial page editor of the
tribune
the following three articles are from
the french magazine french newspaper le
mans
and the first of the articles it was a
three-part series on three successive
days in 1984
the first of the le mans articles that
we're going to be looking at comes from
lumata of june 20th
1984. it's an article headlined bargain
bombs
and it was authored by a at the limited
italian correspondent fabrizio calvi
no relation as far as we know and
bargain bombs reads as follows and uh
remember now all of the p2 connections
and the connection to the pope shooting
that we've spoken about
on june 4th the public prosecutor of
trento a little known town in the north
of italy asked the indictment of 30
individuals
he possessed an enormous dossier the
fruit of four years of inquiry in the
four corners of the world
among those implicated five persons who
served as intermediaries for the sale of
three
20 megaton bombs to syria luma
investigated for three months to trace
this thread
the dossier is composed of three hundred
thousand pages
stacked together they constitute a pile
more than a hundred meters high so
uh interrupting that the documentation
upon which for those people who
uh might be inclined to turn up their
nose at this the the documentation upon
which this is based
uh if stacked if the papers were stacked
on top of each other would
would be higher than a football field
stood on its end so continuing
in this mass are two sheets of paper
where one can read
three atomic bombs read quote three
atomic bombs
weight 90 kilograms enriched uranium
40 kilograms pound
you two thirty five power twenty
megatons tnt
dimensions forty one inches by eleven
inches
the hole is covered with a case of lead
for reasons of security
and that you can be used only from an
airplane
delivery should take place in the
country of the buyer the three can be
assembled now
and will be ready for delivery six weeks
later after dispersing sixty percent of
the payment
the net price for the three is nine
hundred twenty four dollars american
924 million 924 million dollars american
excuse me that's a bargain
yeah i would they are d bargain bombs uh
thanks for the correction
if uh if i need uh similar assistance
please provide it because again
at some point you're going to blow one
of these with all this reading right
first phase of the operation an rwa a
letter of cautioning engaging the
responsibility of a leading bank will be
effectuated for the totality of the sum
under the code name
gem in the face of the trade development
bank of luxembourg
telex 2621 telephone four one eight nine
three
attention glauco partel pass h063381
remember the name glauco partel
key name here second phase of the
operation
again still quoting from the documents
here a reunion at a place between the
buyer and the seller at tbb
if the buyer isn't satisfied he takes
back the rwa and goes
if he is satisfied he addresses to
glauco partel p-a-r-t-e-l
a letter of credit confirmed irrevocable
transferable and divisible under the
code
gen this letter authorizes the
withdrawal of sixty percent of its value
as deposit
before this happens the buyer sends
three experts
no more to the factory of the seller
where they will follow
all the phases of production which last
six weeks
third phase once the three bombs are
completed and tested they will be
shipped in exchange for payment of the
forty percent remaining from this sale
are excluded
israel and south africa unquote
now this is not a quote from the
documents but continuing with the text
from lima time
on june 6th all newspapers subscribing
to the french press agency received on
the telex the following dispatch
quote italy arms an investigation over
four years by judge carlo palermo
into an enormous international
trafficking arms including atomic bombs
ended with the indictment of 30 persons
the indictment included notably the
actor rossano brazzi interrupting friend
of nixon and reagan
colonel massimo poulier ex-member of the
italian secret service and four other
italians
who would also have acted as
intermediaries in the sale of three
atomic bombs to arab countries
many materials were destined for iraq
such as hundreds of tanks
nearly 34 grams of plutonium a thousand
kilograms of uranium
sam seven missiles 500 kalashnikov
submachine guns etcetera
no details were given as to the
foreigners figuring among the 30 persons
indicted
henry arsand the syrian businessman
considered the brains of the traffic
died last year in prison in milan
repeating that last sentence
henry arsan the syrian businessman
considered the brains of the traffic
died last year in prison in milan and i
would interrupt again to say
add arsan to the long and growing list
of prison casualties
which result when the investigations of
these various p2 related scams begin
continuing the four other italians
mentioned were glauco partel
carlo bertoncini vincenzo jovanelli and
yvonne galileos
certainly carlo palermo doesn't well
that uh basically concludes that section
so
before we continue three atomic bombs
were going to be shipped to unnamed
uh middle eastern countries possibility
of syria will be discussed later on
but it's worth noting here that as we
get into the american intelligence
connections that
the leader of this ring henry arsan
after his arrest
dies in prison conveniently before any
of the cases that he's connected with
can come up in court continuing with the
mata
article a little further down in any
case the five principal indictees
in other words the folks indicted are
stars of the arms traffic milieu
the most famous is glauco partel this
roman engineer
specializing in the fabrication of
missiles directs the center for research
on missile propulsion in rome
a private institute when palermo
judge palermo interrogated him partell
admitted that for the last 15
years he worked for the national
security agency
that's the us national security agency
which employs 200
000 agents and if it is less talked
about than the cia
it is no less effective partel moreover
isn't lacking for sponsors
in 1981 during the falklands war he
participated in a formidable operation
on behalf of british intelligence
for the befuddlement of the argentine
services
in paris he proposed to the captain of
the vessel alfredo corti
chief of the naval air mission of the
argentine ambassador the sale of 24
exact missiles the argentine jumped at
the chance
the exods were never delivered they
never existed
the captain was repatriated on the
double should just mention here it's
interesting that uh
um what what this story actually is
we're not quite sure at this point
but here on one end of this thing we've
got uh alicia jelly and massimo puliesi
um massimo pulisi already connected to
stebon
um trying to put together a sale of
exocet missiles on the other hand
um in this article they're suggesting
that glauco partel was working on behalf
of britain to pretend there would be a
sale of extra set missiles which in fact
there wouldn't be
um so a story that needs to be a little
further investigated
one possibility is that the the us and
britain were cooperating in the uh
falcons war of
a fact which drew a lot of anger from
the argentines yes indeed
remember partel is working by his own
admission for the national security
agency for 15 years
continuing so the intermediary in the a
bomb affair had a charged
past but so did the seller himself
eugene bartholomaeus was installed in
the australian city of sydney and had
already done business with partel
selling him tanks and helicopters he
told his client that it all came from
cia surplus
arms stores in nineteen eighty
bartholomeus was
mixed up in the neugen hand bank scandal
get back to that in a second
eugene bartholomeus and his companion
edwin wilson
since convicted in the united states
were implicated in the illicit sale of
arms to libya
he was also tied to mafia families in
los angeles
and he maintained excellent relations
with an australian of chinese origin
dennis wong suspected of being a crime
syndicate director
in sydney but this time it seemed eugene
bartholomaeus hit the jackpot
it was more than a question of ultra
modern tanks helicopters or frigates
what he proposed was nothing less than
the sale of three nuclear devices
the telexes don't indicate where they
were to be assembled
we don't know if the americans mounted
this operation to intimidate israel in
south africa
excluded as buyers of the bombs partell
after all was a specialist in deception
as shown by his role with the x assets
in any case the roman engineer that's
glaucopartel still
explained that he contacted
representatives of the syrian government
who are very interested in the purchase
the negotiations began shortly
thereafter
a telex seized by judge palermo from
partel's office reads
uh quote arrived negotiator seller in
amsterdam wednesday
twenty seventh of january after contact
will follow to luxembourg
okay bunch of important things to look
at here in this article
okay we're talking about glauco partel
now who by his own admission
says that he is working for the nsa the
national security
security agency the top secret um united
states
uh intelligence agency that works almost
exclusively with
intelligence uh gleaned from electronic
sources and other sources of that sort
a huge organization very secretive um
glauco partel also apparently involved
somehow
in the exocet missile deal going on or
not going on in the argentine
falklands war now this the falklands
were coming in a variety of ways
into this whole operation not only
because of the fact of the
strong connections between the p2 and
the italian p2 and the argentine p2
but also as we will talk about next week
because of
um the involvement of certain other
people that time
uh and and the the involvement of people
like michael dean
involved in the pope shooting with
alexander haig
some speculation that we have there uh
things of that nature a bunch of things
to look at in terms of the falklands
broadcasting for from foothill college
this is kfjc lost out those hills
artel's involvement there something to
be checked into now
involved with partel and the sale of the
a bombs for which uh
poliasia and rosanna brazilian the
others are indicted eugene bartholomeus
bartholomeus with a very interesting
background
um involved in the negan hand bank
schedule scandal now the negan hand bank
for those of you who have not been
following um
these broadcasts long enough to remember
the new game
bank was an intelligence bank okay that
was put together out of the
was put together actually it was a joint
cia and naval intelligence operation the
naval intelligence
uh group involved was called task force
and a couple of key names to remember in
connection with task force 157
henry kissinger and the aforementioned
edwin wilson
uh we'll be going into that in our
series on organized crime intelligence
and narcotics
we touched on it briefly in radio free
america four when we were talking about
uh the triple wilson connection anyway
the negan hand bank a very interesting
bank for a variety of reasons
uh the negan hand bank was primarily an
intelligence bank
there were a lot of c i a operations
being run through the bank with the bank
as a cover
for laundering of money in the drug
traffic and the weapon in weapons
traffic and also for direct c i a
political operations
when one of the bank's founders was
found dead
in the australian outback um
government agents descended on the bank
forced the employees to stay in there
all night long
shredding documents and told any of them
that if they said a word about what had
happened that their families would be
killed
these are u s military intelligence
officers telling us to bank employees
according to several different accounts
anyway the negan hand bank
as dave mentioned linked to task force
157 henry kissinger
and uh ed wilson ed wilson of course
also involved
very heavily with muammar gaddafi uh
with frank turple and gary george
corcola who we're going to talk about in
a little while
we have bartholomeus now tied into the
the whole thing so we have a whole
separate little side loop going with
libya
we've got libya involved with the
italian fascists
we've got libya involved with people
like auto score zany ex-nazis
we've got muammar qaddafi involved in
supporting the international fascista
which is operating all over latin
america
we've got libya also involved in the
arms trade in terms of off-loading
uh soviet-made weapons like the
kalashnikovs and others
and getting those in into the st-bomb uh
site circuit
and now we also have them involved
through people like uh eugene
bartholomaeus
and ed wilson involved with st bomb
and this particular uh sale of or or
would be sale
of atomic weapons to syria so there's a
whole little side
thing going with muammar l qaddafi who
as we mentioned earlier
is the uh the quote-unquote idol of the
avant-garde nazionale people um who are
linked to
lisa jelly and the p2 and who claim that
hitler mao
and uh muammar gaddafi are their shining
stars
so qaddafi apparently involved in this
whole thing and as we'll see in the pope
shooting in general
up to his neck and as mentioned before
frank turple who claimed
to have trained mehmed ali asha how to
use a gun at the time he was doing that
was also working for uh definitely
working for moammar al-gaddafi and
almost is definitely working at the same
time for the american cia we'll be
talking about turple and some of the
connecting links between him and this
whole plot again next week
but perhaps uh perhaps for our purposes
here
the most important things to remember is
the american connection
the the los angeles-based branch sutas
the connections to reagan connects to
reagan nixon frank sinatra dean rusk
the uh glauco partel of course
being one of the key well henry arsan
himself who dies in prison is working
for dea
glauco partel is working for the
national security agency and as we've
seen
one of his key associates in the a bomb
scam was eugene bartholomeus who not
only worked for cia but specifically was
an associate of edwin wilson's
in the uh gaddafi trade but basically
the
cia operation in libya whereby qaddafi's
terrorists were trained and
armed we're going to take a short
musical break we'll come right back with
radio free america number 25 reprising a
couple of hours of radio free america
number 20.
we're reprising part of radio free
america number 20 then we'll go live
again for about the last half hour of
the show
again remember the the american
intelligence connections sutas
arsan bartholomaeus and partel's
connections to american intelligence
front and center here because again one
of the other top dogs and i use the term
advisedly
in ste balm was bakir chalang affiliated
with the gray wolves and reputedly the
paymaster for the plot to shoot the pope
the next day for they are that is to say
the day following the article that nip
just read you
the second part in this uh le matas
series appeared about steve
this is june 21st 1984 and it's
headlined
on the track of the leopard by phobizio
calvi by the way
the uh the leopard referred to here
is the leopard tank west german heavy
tank continuing on
beginning with the article eugene
bartholomeus escaped the curiosity of
the australian police
his companions in the c i a protected
him well and it is they
who put him in contact with the roman
engineer glauco partel
the man who took it upon himself to find
clients for the devices i'm going to
read that last couple sentences again
eugene bartholomeus escaped the
curiosity of the australian police
his companions in the c i a protected
him well
and it is they who put him in contact
with the roman engineer glauco partel
the man who took it upon himself to find
clients for the devices
the italian as he explained to carlo
palermo who indicted him last year
had just quit his work at sai where he
was occupied fabricating missiles
he didn't yet know what he was going to
do it was then that he received at his
room office at telex proposing that he
sell a lot of 66 cobra helicopters
which the americans couldn't sell in
iran because of the change of regime
the engineer told the judge quote the
helicopters were in an airport in
belgium ready for delivery
the finances had to pass through the
credit bank of all their
but i wasn't able to find buyers and the
helicopters were recently destroyed
during nato maneuvers
unquote the first setback didn't break
the confidence of bartholomeus or the
americans
partel continued one of his accomplices
carlo bertoncini an italian
industrialist from prometria
told the judge how in october of
nineteen eighty two he negotiated with
the roman engineer to sell 116
tanks and twenty helicopters to the
somalian president
siad when he received the two men in his
office on 17th of october 1982
the african chief of state specified
that he had asked his services to check
with washington on the credentials of
partel
he explained that he had obtained all
the necessary guarantees
moreover the sale went through and judge
palermo has in his dossier
a copy of the contract signed by glauco
partel
and the somalian minister of finances
and when the magistrate asked the
engineer where his arms came from he
replied
the americans unquote ex-agent of the
national security agency
reseller of arms from the cia the
missile expert explained to the trento
judge
why the american intelligence services
wanted it all wanted at all cost to sell
their surplus
quote the market in arms is divided into
two categories
official sales of one government to
another on the one hand
and more discrete transactions on the
other which bring in
with government blessing a series of
intermediaries
beyond its discretion the second system
presents an advantage
it permits the circulation of bribes i
would interrupt
recall that bribing in blackmail one of
the major uh
devices that p2 uses to enhance its
power continuing
for its private transactions the
american government demands three
conditions
evidence of funds approval of the state
department and a purchase order on the
part of the acquiring government
for private sales one makes use of
separate accounts directed by persons
such as eugene bartholomeus
or one named jenny bende p e n d e
they have the formal function of
reseller and avail themselves of
intermediaries
always with the approval of secret
services
unquote reading the last sentence again
they have the formal function of
reseller
and avail themselves of intermediaries
always with the approval of secret
services
unquote parcel was one of these
intermediaries
he was able to establish contacts with
an impressive number of governments
and the diagram of his organization that
he made for judge palermo
shows that he could intervene throughout
the world carlo bertoncini handled
relations with iraq and iran
vincenzo giovanelli with israeli and
arab contacts the lawyer campania dealt
with china
a certain dutcher d-u-t-c-h-e-r
was also in touch with china but also
with saudi arabia as well
and martial ads in parentheses here this
must be john dodger triples contact and
quotes the jack anderson column of
november 13 1981 so another
probable link here between ste bomb arms
for drugs ring
and the triple wilson c i a team so that
is a very very important connection the
dutch connection
reviewing this section very briefly what
we've looked at so far partel
has basically said that c bomb was used
as a major organ of the american
government
not only for unloading its surplus arms
but for basically compromising people
who were incorporated as intermediaries
in some of these sales and the um the
massive american involvement here
according to partel
himself a national security agent is not
surprising in light of the fact that the
head of this ring
was a dea agent bartholomaeus is working
for cia and a major branch originating
in l.a
continuing with the article the
purchasing central functioned as
effectively
glauco partel reserved for himself
negotiations with the principal
furniture
the american state department writing
r-e-u-t-i-n-g and the armorer crateros
talked with the federal republic of
germany
that's west germany of course
bartholomaes occupied himself with
britain and the commonwealth countries
on the one hand
and countries fabricating soviet arms
like korea
on the other richard h bach handled ties
with the french
partel was also in contact with an
impressive number of terror of foreign
countries
specialized in the importation and
export of arms
one of these brings us directly to the
nugent hand bank of sydney
the financial facade for the of the cia
for the international
uh oh i'm sorry for the for the arms
traffic
let me read that sentence again one of
these brings us directly to the new game
bank of sydney
financial facade for the cia for arms
traffic
that which interests us is the french
affiliate of commerce international
headquartered in kansumere a little town
in the maritime alps on the code dessert
since 1981 this company has officially
renounced the sale of arms
none of which prevented in 1982 it
receiving from an indian general in
order for
for thousands of cartridges the company
that directs this officer
asked glauco partel for a reference
according to the british review private
eye during the falklands war the head of
commerce international or commerce
international
frank craddock sold argentina a lot of
munitions similar to those requested by
the indians
frank craddock is a british nationality
his
unpatriotic gesture was not appreciated
on the other side of the channel still
according to private eye he fled to
great britain
where he was sought for bankruptcy fraud
frank craddock was tied to the arms
track
trafficker sarkis sognalian installed in
miami where he directed an
arms network for the cia
commerce international is a
multi-national company having affiliates
in among other places
washington brussels canyon
and singapore according to mother jones
magazine it was an emanation of the cia
in australia journalists for the
national times affirmed that it was
implicated not only in arms trafficking
but also in shadow operations directed
by newt in hand
apparently for the c i a the
destabilization of the whitlam
government in 1975
which is cut in to explain that was the
government of prime minister goff
whitlin
whitlam a labor government not
sympathetic to some of the things the
cia was involved in specifically
among others the use of the pine gap
station
the gulf whitlam government was actually
destabilized again we're talking much
like
just like with italy uh was destabilized
effectively
uh an ally by the by the united states
cia because we did not approve of their
attitude towards the cia's operation in
their own country
that was what something negan had was
used for as a conduit for funds
judge palermo's researchers weren't
confined to the western countries
in following that the path of a lot of
leopard tanks he
stuck his nose into the middle east
among all the arms sold by partel and
his friends palermo also found tanks
theoretically reserved to the nato
countries
that were offered to iraq and iran
it has been years since people in europe
spoke of a traffic of this type in tanks
fabricated by the frg again that's west
germany
there were rumors of a sale to libya but
there was no proof until palermo found
evidence of even more disquieting
transactions
the sale of leopards had been negotiated
by glauco partel
who was the seller palermo asked quote
it was a man named writing
partel replied he was officially based
in the federal republic of germany and
was occupied in import export
he must be allied with the federal
services meeting with west german
federal
federal intelligence writing put himself
in contact with us
through eugene bartholomeus when the
latter was proposing to us to sell the
66 helicopters i told you about unquote
to whom were the tanks offered to renato
gamba
proprietor of a small arms factory in
the valley of trumpia
in the north of italy not far from
trento
it wasn't so much the personality of
gamba that held the most surprises for
judge palermo as the men with whom he
was in contact
and for whose account he realized these
transactions
carlo palermo had just quit the world of
cia vendors
of the eugene bartholomeuses to enter
the no less troubling universe of middle
eastern buyers allied to the syrian
services
and directed by the astonishing henry
arsand
so basically what we have here is an
operation which
appears to be primarily uh revolving
around two organizations one of them
the p2 and the related uh bank armed
reggiano connections
the other being western intelligence not
only are sam but also partel
bartholomeus
are working four elements of u s
intelligence
and or law enforcement and uh it
according to glauco partel
many of the operations of st bomb were
undertaken at the instigation of the us
government so we have a massive massive
american intelligence connection
to steve baum here in light of the fact
that part of it originates in los
angeles
that's not all that surprising and uh
remember now
that there is there are a number of
links the main one being
uh bakir chilenk between this arms for
drugs ring
and the shooting of pope john paul the
second absolutely
also was remember renato gamba here
remember was the person part of whose
arms factory was financed by broji ezar
part of bragi izar
is owned by ambrosiano all right we're
going to take another break at this
point
and uh we will be back in just a few
moments
the man who's going to sell you the
stuff that you need and the trans global
express and it all adds up together here
folks because we are talking about
the world's largest guns for drugs
and terrorism network st bomb originally
we were talking about it only in terms
of the context of the italian politics
and uh
and the the right wing politics of uh
the italian p2 propaganda do a masonic
lodge essentially a secret fascist
government of italy
that was discovered and exposed in 1981
but that uh not only that but as we've
been talking about in the last part of
the broadcast the fact that steve bomb
is intimately connected
to a variety of united states
intelligence operations
um most notably the cia the negan hand
bank of australia
and the task force 157 operations out
there national security agency
national security agency through glauco
partel the man who set up the sale of
three
atomic bombs to syria and uh of course
the operations of frank turple and ed
wilson erstwhile
quote unquote ex-cia agents in libya who
worked with muammar gaddafi
and according to frank turple also
trained ma'am at aliaja the would-be
assassin of pope john paul the second
now that really is the key aspect of our
of uh
ste bomb is the fact that the one of the
key
three people in that organization
for the plot to shoot the pope and again
that that
uh with the massive connections between
western intelligence and the ste bomb
ring with the massive connections
between the p2 and ambraziano complex in
the st
bomb ring called seriously into question
the so-called bulgarian connection
we're basically going to blow that
connection out of the water next week
returning now to the series that le
matan did about steve
we're going to take a look at some steam
operations here which uh go behind the
iron curtain recall that there was a uh
the there was a reference to bulgaria
and yugoslavia as being transit
countries there were also some steam
bomb dealings behind the iron curtain
returning once again illuminati this one
from june 22nd
1984 and again translation jonathan
marshall
research credit to ted rubinstein
speaking of some of the turkish
associates of
henry arsane dea agent and the head of
steve alm lumitar and fabrizio calvi
wright as follows
one of the turkish traffickers arrested
was tegmen er dem erdem
the first to explain to palermo all the
mechanisms of this contraband
organization
in the past air dem had already
furnished these same details to a dea
agent based in west germany
the turk claimed moreover to be himself
an agent of the dea and claimed that his
agency number was
sxy 2000 quote
i knew arsane in 1982 in the united
states unquote
erdem explained to the judge we were in
california in the company of mehmet
cantas
we had a reunion where arsan recalled
the sale of hundreds of leopard two
tanks and cobra helicopters
arsan also told us that he negotiated
the sale of 50 or so m48 tanks
they were in hamburg supposed to be sent
to their destination through a danish
port
when arsan realized this he built the
cost of transport based on the value
of the spanish board excuse me when
arson realized this he built the cost of
transport based on the value of the boat
charged with convoying the arms
he told us then that renato gamba
furnished the arms
in july of nineteen eighty two tegmine
adam did his first deal with arsan and
discovered the
syrian ramifications of the arms traffic
arsan
also served as intermediary between the
polish government
and that of south yemen to sell 56 tons
of arms
five thousand kalashnikovs and five
thousand tokarevs
but why did the polish government use
arsan why did arsand supply the polish
government with false documents
attesting that the arms were destined
for hit the emirate of qatar
air dem got the response from arasan's
mouth quote they explained that they
didn't want the soviets to know about
the operations
so they wouldn't get a percentage the
polls had a pressing liquidity problem
the deal brought them a million eight
hundred thousand dollars
still according to tegmen adam the first
negotiations of which he was a part
took place at the seat of the polish
ambassador in vienna
besides our sand the polish delegation
was composed of a functionary from the
defense ministry named andres urbaniac
you are ban iac
the sellers represented by our the
sellers represented by arsane
take men and two syrians associated with
our sand
those two were named abu dawud
called george and mustafa zenedine
remember abudhu dawud we're going to
come back to him in a future broadcast
some months down the line
for our purposes here it should be noted
not only that still another
associate of our sand tag men at them
claims to be a dea agent and even cited
his number
but it's worth noting here that arsan
has dealings behind the so-called iron
curtains specifically
in poland and uh the operations
of stephon behind the iron curtain would
be of obvious interest
and not obviously quite could quite
obviously be used as a vehicle by
western intelligence
okay continuing as dave mentioned
earlier to the connections of these
various agents
and their connections specifically
behind iron curtain countries
we're going to read from an article that
was originally published in the san jose
mercury
of march 24 1983
the headline is nba nbc
says cia agents under investigation
stateline new york ap
wire story the reagan administration is
investigating
whether the cia station chief in rome
and two of his agents
disobeyed orders in connection with the
investigation of the shooting of pope
john paul the second
nbc news reported wednesday the three
whom the network by law did not identify
raised the ire of officials in
washington because they refused to stop
quote discrediting
the so-called bulgarian connection in
the inquiry of the papal shooting
nbc said mayor met ali ajah
a turkish gunman serving a life sentence
for the attempted assassination of the
pope on may 13
1981 has told italian investigators
that several bulgarians helped him plan
the attack
quoting an unidentified key
administration source
nbc said the three may be fired because
they have allegedly disobeyed orders
issued by the national security adviser
william clark
and cia director william casey nbc said
the rome agents may have downplayed the
bulgarian connection because they did
not want attention drawn to
one an alleged close working
relationship
unquote between them and an italian
labor leader who was arrested as a
bulgarian spy
get back to that two the possible use of
a guns and drugs smuggling route between
sofia bulgaria and milan italy to run
cia agents into eastern europe okay two
very intriguing things there
um the last two things mentioned that
supposedly uh
would be the reasons that these cia
agents would be downplaying
the bulgarian connection and that would
be upsetting the reagan administration
the first the reference to an alleged
close working relationship
between the cia and italian labor leader
who was arrested as a bulgarian spy
the man they're referring to here is a
man by the name of luigi screechiolo
spelled s-c-r-i-c-c-i-o-l-o
luigi's graciola we will be talking
about at some length
next week uh luigi scricciolo is
interestingly about
involved with michael ladine and uh
through michaeladean possibly with
alexander haig
is also involved with one of mehmed ali
ajah's
stories like the bulgarian connection
but it was one of the first of a mehmed
ali asha's stories to fall apart under
scrutiny
and will perhaps lead us in uh
considering how it fell apart and where
to looking a little more closely into
where miami aliyah
stories come from in the first place the
second part and uh for
more and more uh useful for our purposes
right in this show because we'll get to
screechiolo next week
um the possible use of a gun and drug
smuggling route obviously the ste bomb
route
between sofia bulgaria and milan italy
well the idea that it's being used to
run cia agents into eastern europe is
quite interesting
um there is quite possibly some
involvement by some level
of the bulgarian government in this
operation if nothing else
just as in the american government there
are undoubtedly uh elements of the
bulgarian government that are quite
corrupt enough to set up little elements
on a little uh
money-making operations on their own and
to utilize their positions to put away
private nest eggs
also a couple of things to consider also
is the fact that bulgaria fought on the
side of the axis in world war two and
it's not
unreasonable to suppose there might be
some residual fascist elements in
bulgaria
beyond that too there's always the very
very murky consideration of
counterintelligence in other words spy
versus spy something we generally try to
stay away from when we
can but uh a number of researchers that
we've spoken with
uh share the view that we have which is
that both sides knew what was going on
with steve allman were using this arms
for drugs ring
to help monitor the others activities
now one of the uh
aspects to uh well one of the things to
consider
in connection with the obvious
involvement of us intelligence with
steve um
is the possibility of uh using that
organization in order to obtain east
block guns for whatever purpose
just exactly that suggestion was made in
an issue of the reader's digest
specifically
in the issue of november 1983 in an
article
about ste bomba blaming the whole thing
on the kgb in bulgaria
in an article about stevonn by a man
named nathan adams the
title of the article is drugs for guns
it's all about steve um and basically
makes the whole thing out to be a commie
plot which uh
as we've seen is a massive exaggeration
in light of all the p2 uh
in the p2 connections like it was headed
up by a dea agent and had all kinds of
other us intelligence connections
interestingly enough in this article
drugs for guns adams
admits that the cia was involved with
the steam bomb ring to a certain extent
he writes
incredibly enough western nations
perhaps unwittingly
have actually contributed to the
conspiracy for example
until recently the c i a via a german
broker
was purchasing millions of dollars of
eastern bloc weapons to equip
anti-sandinista gorillas in nicaragua
the weapons were supplied by kintex so
according
to uh nathan adams st bomb was used to
obtain ak-47s for the contras in
nicaragua
and that may in fact be a pattern which
is continuing to this day
indeed and uh bear in mind too now
again we don't have to examine every
single one of these in a whole lot of
detail but
it should be looked at this way as dave
mentioned one of the possible reasons
for these connections between the cia
and and their conduit into the ste bomb
operation would be
as dave mentioned a way to get eastern
european weaponry
for whatever purposes they might desire
now one of the things that has been
going on for instance on the nicaraguan
border
is that the contrast have been have been
attempting in some cases it has been
alleged that they have attempted
to make it look as though the uh the
sandinistas were in were making raids
into honduran and costa rican territory
there have been times
when the new when the san andreas
government has admitted yes we made this
attack on a contrabass there have been
other times when the san anisas have
said no we did not do that
but what has been proffered as evidence
on the behalf of the countries
to prove that the sandonises did it were
uh bodies
uh corpses which don't talk and uh
eastern european soviet block weapons
now if indeed ak-47s and the like are
being shipped
through the cia um from st bomb to sent
to
the uh to the countries in nicaragua
it's very possible that they could be
used for just the sort of provocation
with exactly the same kind of motives as
were being used by the italian fascists
during the strategy of tension days
exactly and their indications that uh
this bulgarian ak-47 connection may be
continuous to this day in spite of the
interdiction of the steve
arms for drugs ring in witness to that
we we cite the following
this on the san jose mercury of
september first 1985.
its dateline's headlined in nicaragua
when rebels get polish rifles us
says nicaraguan resistance forces
recently received a shipment of ten
thousand polish-made ak-47 rifles as
part of a weapons deal worth an
estimated six million dollars u.s
officials say
according to one official the shipment
was sent from the bulgarian port of
burgas bur gas
and reached the resistance forces via a
latin american country hostile to the
leftist sundance to government
the country was not identified so the
polish
and bulgarian ak-47 connection may be
continuous to this day we've seen steve
mom transiting through bulgaria and
dealing with poland in the past
[Music]
all right and we are now back live and
uh for those of you who just tuned in
or a little confused uh since we have uh
some better tape quality that's a recent
broadcast comparatively a may of 86
um it may be a little confusing because
the tape quality is good enough it's
hard to tell sometimes if it's live
or not that of course as mentioned when
we started this whole long tape segment
uh was taped from the mediterranean
merry-go-round series that we did in may
of 1986 this of course is nip tuck
speaking with dave emery
in the studios here at kfjc with radio
free america and we're just about into
what we are very definitely into the
final segment of the broadcast tonight
and we're going to wrap it up but first
we're going to talk a little bit about
the segment that we just heard
and a little bit about steve um as those
of you out there you alert listeners and
i know that uh
that you are just that um cannot have
failed
to notice the last couple of articles
and the
the tightening up of the uh the the
focus on in fact the counter connection
or the apparent culture connection
to the st bomb operation well not only
was the ste bomb operation used at least
according to
uh an article in the reader's digest
which in turn is very close to the cia
used to get
polish-made ak-47s to the uh
to the contras but the ste-bomb arms for
drugs ring was also used as indicated
in a number of different articles for
getting arms to homany's regime in iran
now that of course is very very
reminiscent
of the contra gate hyphen iran gate
which is currently exploding all over
the american and world political scene
uh for those people who eventually you
hear this broadcast via tape we're doing
this on december 3rd of 1986 contra gate
hyphen iran gate
is is uh reaching a mounting crescendo
two of those uh two of the central
aspects of that involve
the us basically selling arms to
homeonees iran using the proceeds
from those sales at least in part to
finance the contras
in nicaragua now some of the central
points with steve um as we looked at in
particular in the second
of the fabrizio calvi articles uh we
looked at basically a number of
different
connections between steve baum and us
intelligence and according to glauco
partel
by his own admission and agent for the
national security agency
the ste bomb operation was largely an
extension of the u.s government itself
basically as he indicated it was a back
channel of the american intelligence
services and state department
used not only for trafficking arms but
for creating political influence in some
of the countries those arms are moved to
through the circulation of bribes some
of the key connections here and
similarities
between st baum and the conjugate iran
gate that is breaking and that we're
going to be covering
on sunday night in another archive show
for about three hours on one step beyond
first of all the uh link up between the
u.s national security establishment
and ste bomb it would not only be ties
of cecia
and nsa but also the uh head of the
steve almars for drugs ring
isn't it was himself an agent for the
drug enforcement administration
dea's intersection with cia we're going
to talk about in the third part of our
program next month
now the connections to iran obviously
are very very similar
the connections to contras are very very
similar
and it's also worth noting of course
that again this is
a criminal enterprise in which gun the
proceeds from drug traffic are used
to finance the arms trade it's also
worth noting that ste bomb involved
involves the
manipulation of swiss banks too much of
the financing done through
swiss banks that is also the case with
contra gate hyphen
iran gate note in uh note in particular
the intersection between the
aforementioned new gun hand bank and
people associated with stebon eugene
bartholomeus
wilson associate newgan hand bank
associate and obviously in light of the
discussion of newgan hand at the at the
beginning of the broadcast it's pretty
easy to see some of the comparisons
between st
baum and nugent hand and again we are
mentioning we went into steve on this
evening because
although it has not been established
there are indications that steve baum
and iran gate conjugate may in fact be
directly hooked up
it is as we say food for thought and
grounds for further research
this sunday on one step beyond from
eight o'clock to 11 o'clock
we're going to be dealing with contra
gate iran gate the tapes of that show
will be on promenade file at davcore for
people who eventually hear this
broadcast
via tape now one of the reasons that
we're stressing this so strongly and
that we are bringing in these
connections to old cases that we have
talked about although
many in in many instances of these cases
are still ongoing
uh certainly steve bomb has never been
fully uh documented and explored to the
extent
because it was apparently if not the
largest certainly one of the largest
arms and drug rings ever
but one of the reasons that we are
spending the time to go back over these
cases even though it's
in in some cases in some instances we
have not yet made these connections is
because first of all
uh the connections that seem apparent to
us or seem implicit
are the same seemingly implicit
connections or are similar the ones that
were in fact in place with iran gate and
conjugate which we have been talking
about for several years of course we did
not coin this term
uh but we were talking about these
particular uh gun and arms routes
and these illegal funding operations and
and have been doing so for a long time
uh in a similar way this the connections
between st bomb and these things while
not proved yet
are very similar types of connections in
other words they go beyond coincidence
and the only thing really remaining is
to find a few nails that will finally
nail the coffin lid down
now again to reiterate there's some very
interesting connections
and some cases that may have to be
reopened of course this is probably one
of the reasons that everybody
at the white house is running around um
busily sticking knives into each other's
back because when this blows open it's
going to be very very wide
of course we looked at the fact that a
major player in the st bomb operation
was rosanno brazi
a good personal friend of ronald
reagan's of course reagan uh
is the name that everybody is wondering
about in connection with congregate
irangate how much did he know
indeed now one of the main the things
that dave mentioned of course was the
the
the connections between the nsa and
st-bomb one of the main connections of
course was a man by the name of glauco
partel operated out of los angeles a
company especially
apparently explicitly designed to
illegally ship arms
uh by the name of sutas glauco partel
was also in a national security council
operative
glauco partel was connected also to
bartholomeus and through bartholomaes to
edwin wilson
key name now with regard to sutas mehmet
kantas the fellow we looked at operating
out of la
a major branch of steve bomb the reverse
route as it was described in the la
article coming out of los angeles that's
right so we have
again uh within domestic american
connections to this illegal arms trade
that are uh
the not just the wilson ones but again
this uh this mammoth contest
and sutas connection others we have ed
wilson who is currently doing time
in federal prison in federal prison a
whole lot of time
um on the uh for the same type of thing
that
other people now are uh who have been
arrested for shipping arms to iran are
saying they were set up they were
working for george bush
ed wilson maintained and we have long
agreed that he is probably correct
that he was also working for the cia in
his various operations including uh the
large-scale operations
of uh taking weaponry and and uh and
training materials and also training
expertise
to muammar gaddafi in libya now this is
significant for a variety of reasons but
the most
obvious one are the obvious parallels
between the iran case
in which after years of protesting that
how they would never do business with
terrorists
um and that in fact that they were
combating terrorism worldwide it's been
now revealed the reagan administration
in fact did business with iran and had
secret backed channels
well we have been maintaining for years
that the reagan administration has
secreted back channels to libya
and have been doing business with them
and ed wilson did that business
while working very closely with cia
officers and he is now in jail so it is
quite possible
that one of the other things the reagan
administration is desperately trying to
uh
shove up the defenses on is that if the
iran gate case blows open that in fact
we may have a libya gate to go with it
and as we've seen in some of our
discussions on one step beyond it as
we're going to examine
during the one step beyond show coming
up on sunday that will go into the
permanent archives
the same players that we've seen in iran
gate and conjugate are largely the same
team we saw it with turple wilson
names like thomas kleins theodore
shackley richard c
cord a fella named albert hakeem a new
player on the triple wilson
stage these are names that are cropping
up in with regard to both
iran gate and contra gate and of course
as we've seen both of those scandals
turn out to be two different sides of
the same
unfortunate coin now one of the oh one
of the other
uh major names that has cropped up in
regard to the contras repeatedly
and in fact has cropped up on our
broadcast here many many times
is that of major general john singlaub
john singlaub has a uh a
right-wing pedigree as long as your arm
dating back to when he was in charge of
the forces in korea and was booted out
by jimmy carter for basically making
undemocratic comments
about the president's right to uh
command the troops in the field
as commander-in-chief rather similar to
another
right-winger of no general macarthur who
was booted out for saying the same types
of things in korea
uh john singh lab of course also is
extensively connected
um this is extensively connected with
the
world anti-communist league and the john
burke society and
ronald reagan's national security
council and we talked in this
earlier broadcast how john singlaub
himself
went uh directly to ronald reagan and
got marching orders
to set up this underground covert
operation to get arms
and things into the countries in
nicaragua and one of the ways this was
done of course we now find out was the
iran gate
monies being brought over but now this
underground uh network that singh lob
tapped into as we will see is a network
that has been long in existence and has
been
holding a lot of other major players um
and singh love himself has been
connected
and now we're going to introduce a few
more names with singlab now one of the
major names that we should uh come to
familiarize ourselves with with regard
to the inner relationship between the
arms and drugs trade drug trade
and in turn the cia's sponsorship of
both arms and drugs in
uh under under the auspices of official
u.s
government operations now one of the
names we should know in connection with
this is a guy named robert vesco
a fellow who's been connected with a
number of scandals in the past and as it
turns out
one of the scandals that he should have
been connected with has not been at
least uh
in terms of most of the mainstream press
concerns drug smuggling
that drug smuggling on behalf apparently
of the united states government or in
cahoots with it
and in turn in the interrelationship as
we've seen so often between
drug smuggling and arm smuggling and one
of the names that we're going to look at
in connection
with robert vesco was a fellow named
mitchell werbel
indeed we're going to read now again
from the great heroin coup by henrik
krueger
this is from a chapter entitled guns for
drugs which in fact is our theme tonight
as you can tell
in august nineteen seventy six lucian
conan c-o-n-e-i-n
lucian coneems chum mitch werbell iii
whose br fox company had shared a
washington office with coneen's dea
special operations group was brought
before a miami federal court on charges
of conspiracy to smuggle 50 000 pounds
of marijuana a month
from colombia to the united states he
and several co-conspirators had
allegedly hatched the plot in the summer
of 1975
just when alberto cecilia falcone and i
will put that in parenthetically this is
the series of articles that we read a
little earlier in the broadcast
just when alberto cecilia falcone was
arrested in mexico
multi-ton marijuana loads would have
been flown from colombia
to an isolated ranch in the florida
evergrades everglades near the cow town
of okeechobee
the star prosecution witness was one of
warbell's close associates
the convicted cocaine and marijuana
smuggler kenneth gordon bernstein
however weeks before his scheduled court
appearance he died in the mysterious
crash of his p-51 mustang in an air show
most of the vital tape recordings and
films of meetings between bernstein or
bell
and other defendants were no longer
producible in court
orbel's defense was that his role in the
plot had been as undercover agent for
coneem
both coney and eagle crow eagle crow by
the way was a
a nixon staffer if you don't remember
who was one of the
casualties of the watergate affair both
conan and eagle crow were to have been
witnesses on his behalf
but crowe testified that he didn't know
where bell had worked for the dea's
special operations branch and konin
wasn't called at all
another defense witness was the soldier
of fortune jerry heming
whose private army of cuban exiles and
americans the international penetration
force
appears from hemming's op description of
its missions to have played an active
role in operation 40.
during the trial hemming would stay late
into the night in warbel's hotel room
or bell was found innocent and released
just like the thai opium smuggler slash
cia agent put a porn crom quan before
him in 1973.
he went home to georgia to pursue his
weapons business and law enforcement
training camp
according to writer hank messick in 1978
he was involved in far-right politics
for the likes of major general john k
singlaub who had been relieved of his
command in korea after outspoken
criticism of president carter
and members of the american security
council the key u.s link to the far
rights
international umbrella organization the
world anti-communist league
dubbed whackle as reported recently in
the new york times the beneficiaries of
his anti-terrorist training have
included members of the far-right
anti-semitic u.s
labor party another significant group
that's
by the way run by lyndon larouche a name
that's familiar to all of us
where bell owns eight companies most of
them dealing in firearms
used by law enforcement and intelligence
units one of the firms
st one of the firm's studies in the
operational negation of insurgents and
counter-subversion
otherwise known by its acronym psionics
specializes in the production of m10 and
m11
silenced machine pistols the latter two
weapons designed by gordon
ingram and warbell are about the
ultimate weapons for terror and
extermination
their sales agent was rebels military
armament corporation
together with the anti-castro cuban arms
dealers anselmo allegro and the
mercenary jerry heming
wherebell founded the parabellum
corporation in 1971 in miami
parabellum was licensed to sell arms in
latin america
it was also the firm from which
watergate burglar frank sturgis
planned to obtain weapons for cuban
exiles who were going to
but eventually did not disrupt the 1972
miami presidential conventions
continuing with kruger's account
in 1974 where bell according to a motion
filed by his own lawyer when were bell
his son and his company defense services
incorporated were charged with illicit
weapon sales
was involved in a quote conspiracy among
the cia
robert vesco and various corporations to
finance clandestine guerrilla activities
in latin america unquote
vesco wanted to purchase rebel's stock
of 2 000 silenced m10 machine pistols
when rebel failed to secure an export
license he devised a plan to smuggle the
weapons to vesco
the two later negotiated the
construction of a factory in costa rica
which would be licensed to fabricate the
pistols
intriguingly in that same period someone
was negotiating with a u s firm for
rights to fabricate
in mexico fully automatic weapons for
clandestine guerrilla actions in latin
america
that someone was mexico's cuban exile
heroin czar alberto cecilia falcone
and among the weapons he was inspecting
was the ingram m10 nine millimeter
parabellum
although the m10 and m11 could be
acquired legally only with the special
permission of u.s officials
large numbers of silenced m10s turned up
in the hands of european fascist
terrorists in 1976 and seven
when pierre luigi concucelli a leader of
the italian terrorist group ordinuova
was arrested in rome in february of 1977
once you continue reading your nip okay
when
pierre luigi conquitelli a leader of the
italian terrorist group where dna nuovo
was arrested in rome in february of 1977
police found in his apartment the
silenced m10 which he had used to murder
the rome magistrate
vittorio ocorcio ocorcio had been shot
down on the streets of rome in july 1976
after announcing he would expose the
close collaboration between fascist
terror groups
and the mafia however it was among
spanish terrorists
in particular that were bell's machine
pistols appeared in quantity
most notably a sizable consignment of
m10s
sent to spain under license from u s
authorities had been purchased by
spanish intelligence agency
by the spanish intelligence agency dgs
which has allegedly coordinated the
actions of fascist terrorists
the fugitive ios billionaire vesco of
course robert vesco again
employed a large contingent of cuban
exiles in his costa rica sanctuary
moreover his weapons negotiations
coincided with the efforts of the
fanatic anti-castro cuban leader orlando
bosch
to assemble cuban exile groups into an
army of terror
kuru c-o-r-u that would later carry out
assassinations and other dirty work for
several latin american regimes
during bosch's 1974-75 drive
a wave of murder struck miami's cuban
exile haven
most victims had been opposed to bosch
with the obstacles to his plan removed
kuru was established in june uh excuse
me uh with the obstacles to his plan
removed
kuru was established in june 1976
while vesco and warbel were hatching
their weapons deal
bosh's base of operation just happened
to be vesco's kingdom of costa rica
and mafia heroin boss santo trafficante
jr was also reportedly there
between january 1974 and the summer of
75.
journalist jim hogan speculates
speculates in his book spooks
that the three might have joined forces
in a cia conspiracy
to escalate anti-communist terror in
latin america
continuing in 1973 some of the details
began to surface in a series of scandals
linking these individuals that is to say
san interrupting santo tropicante
mitchell bell and robert vesco there are
a lot of names in this chapter so
those are the three to keep it to keep
in uh keep track of here
again in 1973 some of the details began
to surface in a series of scandals
linking these individuals
dea undercover agent frank perot charged
vesco with financing extensive heroin
smuggling
for his initiative pair off was fired
summarily and his life was threatened
before the senate investigation
subcommittee could probe deeply
the case was squelched through the
intervention of the white house
the oval office had already helped vesco
a friend of the nixon family
in his run-in with the securities and
exchange commission
which had sought his prosecution for the
trail of swindle he had left in the
world of international finance
midway through the subcommittee
investigation of the heroin charges
the dea announced the disappearance of
its vesco file
one year later as the subcommittee
investigated warbel's weapons deal with
vesco
it learned that vesco had once employed
government narcotics agents
in 1972 two bugging specialists from the
bnd flew from los angeles to new jersey
to sweep vesco's home and office of
surveillance devices
according to the subcommittee the
sweeping tour had been arranged by an
admitted friend of vescos
who was also involved in supplying the
fugitive with two thousand machine guns
and helping him establish a factory for
the weapons in costa rica
guess who and interjecting of course the
guess who they're talking about is mitch
werbel
that was not the last heard of robert
vesco in connection with drugs
in the summer of 1977 police uncovered
the smuggling of large quantities of
heroin and cocaine to rhode island
in one of the involved ships they
discovered a ledger in which it was
written quote
to vesco 6 million he picked up with
shrimper lansky
courier beaten up several things point
to vesco involvement in the
long-standing partnership of the cia
the lansky trophicante syndicate and the
cuban exiles in a drugs for guns for
terror deal to step up armed suppression
and anti-communism in latin america
journalist hogan ventures that the
conspirators might have used such
go-betweens and careers
as the beautiful patricia richardson
martinson
according to her ex-husband the former
army intelligence agent william spector
ms martinson had very close
relationships with almost everyone of
importance in the drug business
yusef vedas the lebanese founder and
managing director of intra bank
known as one of the major financiers of
the heroin traffic
paul louis wyler w-e-i-l-l-e-r a french
financier similarly alleged to be behind
the narcotics trade
eduardo barudi b-a-r-o-u-d-i a big-time
heroine and gun smuggler suspected of
having arranged badasses mysterious
death in switzerland
christian bullseyers david conrad
conrad bouchard b-o-u-c-h-a-r-d a top
heroine trafficker heavily involved in
frank peroff's vesco heroin allegations
and marcel boucher b-o-u-c-a-n
the skipper of the caprice du tom which
was seized in 1972 with 425 kilos of
pure heroin
continuing yet another likely
intermediary
among the apparent conspirators is the
cia contract agent slash
arms dealer slash art dealer fernandro
in 1971 the cia helped get vesco
released from san antonio prison in
geneva
where he had been arrested in the
bernard cornfield investors overseas
service case
legrow was in that same position in that
same prison
and spoke with vesco in january 1973 the
two were reunited in nassau
legro was seen in the company of baidas
in geneva
and rio de janeiro his closest friend
was the convicted heroin trafficker
andrei labai
a close associate of haiti's duvalier
dynasty
in geneva legrow also met frequently
with eveline hirsch
the wife of the imprisoned bankroller
andrey hirsch whose south american
heroin contact had been christian david
just as the u.s put the screws on the
paraguayan government for the
extradition of august record
legrow was in paraguay to close out a
weapons deal with president stressner
later when legrow was placed in
protective confinement in brazil
newspapers speculated on his involvement
in the david mob's narcotics deals
recent years investigations into the c i
a organized crime connection
have resulted in an epidemic of sudden
deaths
in the cia dea vesco
syndicate scheme alone one can mention
kenny bernstein
or bell associate colonel robert f baird
who was shot down in the atlanta parking
lot in july 75
another warbell associate and
co-defended in his marijuana case john
nardi who was shot in cleveland
and vesco's security chief bobby hall
who was shot to death in his los angeles
home in july 1976
after the senate investigation
subcommittee's attempted probe into the
vesco heroin case
was sabotaged from the highest quarters
committee chairman henry jackson asked
quote did the u s government wish to
keep vesco out of this country
for some reason did he have some special
information which he could supply to
explain
in part the national nightmare we have
just lived through
one senate investigator offered an
answer quote
more than any single person vesco has
information which
if he talked would make watergate look
like a picnic
now the point is here that mitchell
warbell when he was arrested for arm
smuggling as he was arrested earlier
for alleged drug smuggling mess said
that basically he was involved in a
cooperative effort with robert vesco and
the cia to
finance anti-communism anti-communist
activities
in latin america as indicated here
robert vesco was very much involved with
attempting to manufacture mitch
warbell's automatic weapons
in costa rica and robert vesco was also
heavily involved in the narcotics
traffic according to accounts here
and as indicated uh author jim hogan in
his book spooks
has speculated and his speculation
appears to have considerable merit
that santos tropicante mitch werbel and
robert vesco were involved
in using the proceeds from the drug
trade to finance the arms trade and in
turn to finance
anti-communist death squad activity in
latin america
the use of the narcotics trade to
finance death squads and parallel police
in latin america and elsewhere
is one of the things we're going to
focus on in our third
of our the third program in our
projected four-part series
dealing with the interrelationship
between the cia the narcotics trade and
uh well basically the inner relationship
between the two
now this coming sunday evening for those
people who are taping this or listening
to this program live
on from 8 to 11 we're going to present
sort of a mini radio free america about
iran gate and uh contra gate and for
those people who eventually hear this by
tape
uh that program will be available it
will go into the permanent archives as
sort of a a
sub radio free america you go to radio
free america 25
a it'll be a one step beyond show among
the miscellaneous shows available
it'll be called contra gate and iran
gate and the
robert vesco connections will be
cropping up in the background of that
several of the people mentioned now
being mentioned in connection with
contra gate in iran gate
crop up in connection with robert vesco
investors overseas services and that
scandal
will be coming back to vesco reviewing
the material presented here
and talking about some of the new
developments and conjugate in iran gate
on sunday evening that will be available
under the title of conjugate irangate
for the benefit of people who eventually
hear this by tate and indeed with that
we are going to wrap it up for this
evening
so before we go um actually i'm going to
have dave give the address for dab
course so those of you out there who are
listening and would like to get these
tapes and have been unable to tape it
yourself
will be able to get just that okay now
the name of the company that stocks all
of our radio free america shows they
also have our guns of november programs
on file
also a number of different uh
miscellaneous one-step beyond shows
the name of that company is called dav
core spelled d-a-v
as in victor k-o-r-e they're located at
suite 1300
d as in davcore space parkway three
words just like it sounds space parkway
that's in mountain view california zip
code 94043
the phone number is 415-969-3030
right or phone to the attention of paul
once again that's davcore
suite d space parkway
mountain view california 94043
the phone number is area code
415-969-3030 write or phone with the
attention of paul
and please be advised that neither
myself nor nip nor the station makes a
dime off of that
that's right and again we'd like to
stress to you that those of you who can
um by all means uh if you know tune in
this sunday
um the seedlings that we have been
planning over the years and that as
you've seen some of them back uh
as recently as may in our broadcast then
and some of them going way back to when
we first started this broadcast and
during the carter administration these
seedlings are beginning to bear some
very strange but for one
for an infrequent chance some very
public fruit
so we hope you will stick with us we're
going to be putting a lot of emphasis on
on this stuff this sunday and beginning
to tie some of these radio free america
archive broadcast into the current
situation
even more closely so be there for that
with that we are going to put it on the
road and we hope you will all join us
then thank you for being with us
and we will see you when we return on
sundays of course is one step beyond and
with more radio free america's
right here broadcasting from foothill
college this is kfjc
los altos hills